

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1408-H1419]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




SEARCHING FOR AND CUTTING REGULATIONS THAT ARE UNNECESSARILY BURDENSOME 
                                  ACT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Newhouse). Pursuant to House Resolution 
150 and rule XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration 
of the bill, H.R. 998.
  Will the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers) kindly take the chair.

                              {time}  1309


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 998) to provide for the establishment of a process for 
the review of rules and sets of rules, and for other purposes, with Mr. 
Rogers of Kentucky (Acting Chair) in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose on Tuesday, 
February 28, 2017, amendment No. 7 printed in House Report 115-20 
offered by the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Krishnamoorthi) had been 
disposed of.


                Amendment No. 8 Offered by Ms. Bonamici

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 8 
printed in House Report 115-20.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.

[[Page H1409]]

  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 31, after line 24, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION RELATING TO CONSUMER PROTECTIONS FOR 
                   STUDENT LOAN BORROWERS.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules prescribed by the Secretary of Education with 
     respect to providing consumer protections for student loan 
     borrowers.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 150, the gentlewoman 
from Oregon (Ms. Bonamici) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Oregon.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of the amendment to 
protect student loan borrowers from the dangerous provisions of the 
SCRUB Act.
  More than 40 million Americans have student loan debt. Roughly one-
quarter of these borrowers are behind on their payments either in 
delinquency or default. The Federal Government has a responsibility to 
protect these borrowers and American taxpayers from unscrupulous 
institutions that saddle students with exorbitant debt in exchange for 
an education of dubious value.
  Hardworking students, like those who attended Corinthian Colleges or 
ITT Tech, could be harmed if Congress passes a law that potentially 
strips them of a clear process for having their debt forgiven after 
institutions fabricate job placement figures or close unexpectedly.
  This bill could allow institutions like Corinthian Colleges to 
require pre-dispute arbitration clauses, and prohibit class-action 
lawsuits--making it much less likely that students will get the justice 
they deserve when a school misrepresents the quality of its programs.
  Millions of borrowers who rely on popular income-driven repayment 
plans could be left without options for keeping their payments 
affordable.
  Active-Duty servicemembers could lose access to deferment benefits.
  Rules banning incentive pay could be undone, exposing student 
veterans and others to aggressive marketing.
  This bill could weaken Federal protections for millions of student 
loan borrowers when, instead, Congress should be working together to 
make college more affordable.
  I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this amendment, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, as we pointed out yesterday, the SCRUB Act 
requires the commission to identify regulations that should be 
repealed. The commission focuses on rules and regulations that are out 
of date, no longer useful, and otherwise unnecessary or obsolete.
  As I stated yesterday, no regulations should be exempt from this 
bill. Not all consumer protection regulations are created equal. If the 
regulation is important, effective and still relevant, then let it 
stand. If the regulation is not effective, no longer valuable and 
unnecessary, then why keep it around?
  This amendment is just another wrong-headed carve-out that will end 
up hurting student loan borrowers more than it could possibly help 
them.
  And for those reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose 
this amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Davis), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Higher Education and Workforce Development.
  Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise to protect student 
loan borrowers. Protecting our young people should be a priority for 
every single Member of this Chamber. A major way that we are able to 
defend our students is through the safeguards that are at stake today.
  These protections, like provisions which ensure students are able to 
find gainful employment or have recourse if a school misleads them, 
have been integral in the wake of unethical practices by certain 
schools. We have seen the damage that schools like ITT Tech and Ashford 
University have done in districts like mine. And as a military town, 
the students in San Diego are particularly vulnerable to bad actors in 
the for-profit education industry.
  I can tell you, Mr. Chair, I have heard from students who can't get 
the degrees they need to provide a better life for their families; 
veterans who write to me imploring us to protect the men and women who 
would have spent their lives protecting us; students who write to me 
frustrated by this Chamber's insistence on deregulation for 
deregulation's sake; and many more who write letters saying, education 
is important to us. And we believe it should be important to you as 
well.
  Let's prove them right, Mr. Chair. Let's show that education is 
important to us, and let's commit to keeping key provisions for 
students intact.

                              {time}  1315

  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, everybody wants to see gainful employment for 
our students, our college students especially.
  Those institutions that have preyed on these students also are as a 
result of a regulatory environment that has allowed that to happen. 
That same regulatory environment would be under review, under oversight 
by the SCRUB Act. For those reasons particularly, we need to make sure 
that we do not have this amendment, but, more importantly, that we do 
allow for the underlying bill.
  For those reasons, again, I urge opposition to this amendment by my 
colleague.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Polis), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Early 
Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education.
  Mr. POLIS. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of Congresswoman 
Bonamici's amendment.
  Today, our country owes over $1.3 trillion in student debt. In 
Colorado, the average student loan borrower owes $26,000.
  Why would we want to risk abolishing consumer protections for our 
borrowers?
  These are very personal numbers. The stories I hear, the burden of 
student loan debt affects people's ability to own a home or buy a car.
  A recent report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau found 
that the number of student loan borrowers over the age of 60 has 
quadrupled. People haven't even paid off their loans as they enter 
retirement age.
  Now, the Obama administration did take important steps to protect and 
support student loan borrowers. They made it easier for them to pay 
back their loans and ensured they were treated fairly by student loan 
services. Rolling back these protections would have far-reaching 
negative effects for our borrowers.
  I strongly support Congresswoman Bonamici's amendment, exempting 
Federal protections that support consumer protections for student loan 
borrowers from the SCRUB Act. The last thing we need to scrub away is 
protections for people to take out student loans.
  I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chairman, the SCRUB Act is completely unnecessary. 
Agencies can already review and repeal regulations that are no longer 
needed. The only thing this bill does for people with student loan debt 
is give them less certainty that their investment will be worth it.
  At a time when a college degree or credential is a critical tool for 
securing a family-wage job, it makes no sense to threaten to rescind 
rules that shield Americans from career programs that leave students 
with large debts and low wages.
  I encourage all of my colleagues to adopt this amendment to safeguard 
consumer protections for student loan borrowers.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. Bonamici).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.

[[Page H1410]]

  

  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Oregon 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 9 Offered by Ms. Bonamici

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 9 
printed in House Report 115-20.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 31, after line 24, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION RELATING TO ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY 
                   EDUCATION ACT OF 1965.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules relating to title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 150, the gentlewoman 
from Oregon (Ms. Bonamici) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Oregon.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the amendment to 
exempt rules related to title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act from the misguided provisions of the SCRUB Act.
  Title I is the core feature of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act, a critical civil rights law that holds States accountable for 
helping all students succeed.
  The SCRUB Act threatens rules for implementing title I, which, in 
turn, threatens students. For example, title I rules clarify important 
accountability requirements that we passed into law just last session 
with strong bipartisan support.
  Clear rulemaking is necessary to give education leaders certainty so 
they can benefit from the law's new flexibility and innovate on behalf 
of students.
  Title I rules also include important details about the use of 
assessments in schools. These rules were negotiated with broad 
consensus. Would the SCRUB Act repeal them and deny States 
clarification about reducing the burden of testing?
  My colleagues across the aisle may argue that no rule should be 
exempt from the SCRUB Act and that somehow the unelected commission in 
the bill will identify only bad rules. I am not so sure. The commission 
in the bill could create any methodology for targeting rules and, 
without knowing the commission's method, it is disingenuous to say that 
essential rules, good rules, wouldn't be affected.
  Additionally, rules are rarely black and white as the majority 
suggests. Title I accountability rules, for example, sometimes push 
States to report on how they are serving each subgroup of students. But 
where some local officials may complain, these rules make sure that 
low-income and minority families are being counted.
  Will the commission hear the concerns of those families?
  I ask my colleagues to protect vulnerable students across the country 
by supporting this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chair, this amendment would exclude from the 
commission's review regulations under title I, part A of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act, as amended.
  ESEA provides financial assistance to local educational agencies and 
schools with high numbers or high percentages of children from low-
income families to help ensure that all children meet challenging State 
academic standards.
  No regulation should be exempt from the review process, especially 
those regulations that impact low-income students across the country. 
It is imperative that we have smart, targeted, cost-effective 
regulations that actually help the people that need the help.
  Imposing ineffective regulations on schools and educational agencies 
cost taxpayers money--this must be given the opportunity for oversight, 
as is given under the SCRUB Act--and overburden our already exhausted 
educators, and can cause more harm rather than good.
  Why not take a look at these regulations and just consider whether 
they are working? And, if they are, then let's leave them alone. But if 
not, then, let's change them there.
  There is no reason why we should create, again, a special carve-out 
from the commission's consideration. For those reasons, Mr. Chairman, I 
urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Polis), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Early 
Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education.
  Mr. POLIS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of Congresswoman 
Bonamici's amendment, which I am also proud to cosponsor.
  When ESEA, or the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, was first 
passed in 1965, it truly was a landmark and important piece of civil 
rights legislation. It is written with the intent that every student--
no matter their race, their economic background, their ZIP Code--
deserves a great education in our country.
  Title I of ESEA gets at the heart of the civil rights spirit for 
providing additional funding for schools with significant populations 
of high-needs and at-risk students. Now, title I also provides 
important performance and equity parameters for States and districts 
and gives some direction about how States can comply with these 
requirements to support our most struggling schools.
  Of course, the text of the law doesn't do everything, which is why we 
rely on the protections that have been put in place through rule.
  The SCRUB Act would allow an unelected panel to carelessly do away 
with important civil rights protections and transparency, the opposite 
of the legislative intent in the ESEA.
  The Department of Education regularly goes through an extensive 
process for finalizing regulations, and to do away with these 
protections on a whim by an unelected, all-powerful panel may somehow 
score political points, but it is at the expense of students across our 
country.
  I strongly support Representative Bonamici's amendment that would 
exempt title I from this harmful bill, and I urge its passage.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, since 1965, when the ESEA was passed, we have 
gone from chalkboards to iPads. Things have changed. The regulatory 
environment has changed.
  May I remind my colleagues that, under the SCRUB Act, the bipartisan 
review committee would make these recommendations for changes in the 
regulatory scheme to Congress, who would have the final say as to 
whether any regulations need to be changed.

  Again, for those reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to 
oppose this amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Davis), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on 
Higher Education and Workforce Development.
  Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise to suppose the ESEA 
title I protection amendment.
  We all know education, at its core, is a civil rights issue. We have 
a responsibility to ensure that every student has access to a world-
class education, and this is especially true for children who come from 
families with limited means.
  For our working class families, a quality education can be--and 
actually is--the ladder which raises an entire family's prospects. The 
protections that we are debating today ensure that these students and 
their schools are not shortchanged from the resources they need in 
order to be successful. These are resources that they are entitled to 
by law.
  Last year's Every Student Succeeds Act was a very successful 
bipartisan compromise, so let's not gut the protections that are 
crucial for its effective implementation before it is even given a 
chance.

[[Page H1411]]

  A student's ZIP Code should not determine the quality of his or her 
education. A family's income should not determine their child's career 
prospects, and a school's location should not determine its resources.
  Let's come together to protect our most vulnerable students because, 
as we all know, today's investments in education will determine our 
future.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, may I inquire to the remaining time, please?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from California has 1 minute 
remaining.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Chair, title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act is a key Federal law for advancing equity in our Nation's 
classrooms. The rules implementing title I provide important details 
that make sure historically underserved students have access to an 
equal public education. These rules are too important to entrust to a 
mysterious commission.
  I am very proud of the work I did in the State legislature repealing 
unnecessary education rules and statutes. We did it in a very 
collaborative, bipartisan manner through existing processes. That is 
what we should be doing, not going through this SCRUB Act.
  I urge my colleagues to protect title I rules, stand up for 
educational equity, and support the amendment.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. Bonamici).
  The amendment was rejected.


                 Amendment No. 10 Offered by Mr. Raskin

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 10 
printed in House Report 115-20.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 31, after line 24, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION RELATING TO CLEAN AIR ACT.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules relating to the enforcement of the Clean Air Act 
     (Public Law 88-206; 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 150, the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. Raskin) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would protect all rules 
relating to the enforcement of the Clean Air Act, which are in danger 
now under H.R. 998, the SCRUB Act, which seeks to authorize a brand new 
$30 million Presidential commission of unelected and unaccountable 
bureaucrats to wipe out agency rules across the whole field of 
government.
  Mr. Chairman, last night in this Chamber, the President of the United 
States came and articulated policy areas where he said his 
administration ``wants to work with Members of both parties.'' One of 
these was to promote clean air and clean water. I was happy to hear it 
because earlier in the day he signed an executive order to clear the 
way for weakening safe drinking water standards through redefinition of 
which small bodies of water are covered under the Clean Water Act.
  Now, the amendment I propose provides a chance for all of us to start 
fresh in demonstrating our seriousness about this new bipartisan 
commitment to protect the water we drink and the air that we breathe.
  The SCRUB Act proposes to create a commission to do what Federal 
agencies and commissions already do, which is to review and update 
their rules. That is why a lot of us are deeply skeptical about 
spending $30 million to create a new roving commission to hack away at 
rules protecting the public interest.
  This commission would be made up of five members appointed directly 
by the President at his discretion and four members by the President 
from congressional nomination, too, from each party.
  The advocates for this legislation say it is not about dismantling 
the rules that protect the water that our children drink or the air 
that our children and our grandparents breathe or the food that all of 
us eat. It is just about getting rid of unnecessary and obsolete and 
profligate regulations. And I take them at their word that that is what 
it is about.

                              {time}  1330

  So let's all agree that the new supercommission that you seek to 
establish under the SCRUB Act will not touch, in any way, the rules 
adopted under the Clean Air Act. If that is not the purpose of this 
legislation, to undermine the Clean Air Act regime, as its advocates 
repeatedly insist, then there should be no problem having us formalize 
this commitment on a bipartisan basis.
  Right now, the SCRUB Act does not explicitly protect clean air--or 
clean water, for that matter--from the prospects of a roving 
bureaucratic attack. Thus, it exposes all of us to unnecessary harm, 
threatening to scrub away the rules that protect the air we breathe.
  What will that mean for 17 million Americans with asthma, for the 
millions of people with lung cancer and other respiratory diseases, for 
more than 30,000 people struggling with cystic fibrosis? All of these 
people are potentially in danger simply because of an overblown 
ideological attack on regulations, which are just the rules that we 
adopt as a constitutional democracy to protect ourselves from harm.
  In answer to objections about the bill, the majority says that 
Congress will still have its say; but if you read it carefully, you see 
that congressional authority has actually been placed in a 
straitjacket. The bill requires an up-or-down vote on the commission's 
recommendations as a complete omnibus package rather than voting on 
each proposal individually.
  So if you agreed with loosening some regulations, for example, in the 
Title X Family Planning program, which has a lot of rules, but you 
don't want to eviscerate the regulatory infrastructure under the Clean 
Air Act or the Clean Water Act, you would have to vote on the entire 
package at once. This makes Congress into an embarrassing rubber stamp 
for a nine-person body effectively controlled by the executive branch.
  Dear colleagues, let's not play games with the health and safety of 
our constituents. If this bill passes as is, rules that govern the very 
air we breathe would be subject to the SCRUB Act's unelected, 
unaccountable, and unbounded practitioners. My amendment closes a 
gaping and dangerous hole in the legislation. I ask my colleagues to 
think about public health and safety first, and not the magical 
thinking and scientifically ungrounded cost-benefit analysis promised 
by the SCRUB Act.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, this bill, again, requires the commission to 
identify regulations which should be repealed. The commission focuses 
on rules and regulations that are, again, out-of-date, no longer 
necessary, no longer useful, or otherwise obsolete.
  Regulations promulgated under the Clean Air Act need to be examined 
and updated just as much as any other regulations. Reviewing and 
revisiting regulations promulgated decades ago allows the opportunity 
to improve upon existing standards.
  According to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Environmental 
Protection Agency regulations cost the public $353 billion a year. 
Given the high costs associated with EPA regulations, excluding these 
regulations from this review process just doesn't make any sense. $353 
billion--more than one-third of a trillion dollars--needs review.
  Importantly, this bill has several significant procedural hurdles to 
pass before any regulation would be repealed: the commission must 
determine the regulation is no longer necessary; the commission must 
recommend repealing the regulation; and, most significantly, Congress 
would need to vote to get rid of the regulation. No regulation would be 
repealed without a vote by Congress.
  This is reinstating the authority that this body has, and for these 
foregoing reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
amendment.

[[Page H1412]]

  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to my 
colleague from Maryland (Mr. Cummings).
  Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, I support this amendment to exempt rules 
under the Clean Air Act from this bill.
  According to a 2011 study by the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
central benefits of the Clean Air Act exceed costs by a factor of more 
than 30 to 1, and the high benefits exceed costs by 90 times. Cleaner 
air provides exceptional economic benefits because it results in the 
improved health and productivity of Americans and reduces medical 
expenses for air pollution-related health problems.
  The Clean Air Act will prevent thousands of early deaths; and its air 
quality and health benefits, including the prevention of heart attacks 
and the reduction of pulmonary diseases like chronic bronchitis, will 
grow over time.
  Representative Raskin's amendment, which would exempt all rules that 
relate to the Clean Air Act, is based on common sense. Cleaner air 
benefits every man, woman, and child in the country. If the 
Environmental Protection Agency is prevented or delayed from 
promulgating new regulations relating to the Clean Water Act because of 
cost, the children of this country will pay a very heavy price.
  I hope that all Members will understand the need for exempting rules 
that result in cleaner air for our children and support this amendment.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, this bill, when passed, does nothing to 
remove any regulation. What it does is exactly what we were elected to 
do: provide transparency and oversight over existing regulations to 
determine whether they are necessary or not. For those reasons, Mr. 
Chairman, I would again urge opposition to this amendment.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Raskin).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Maryland 
will be postponed.


                 Amendment No. 11 Offered by Ms. Moore

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 11 
printed in House Report 115-20.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 31, after line 24, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION RELATING TO TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules--
       (1) relating to any obligation of the Federal Government 
     with respect to a Tribal government; or
       (2) supporting Tribal sovereignty and self-determination.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 150, the gentlewoman 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Wisconsin.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is very simple. It just says 
that the provisions of the SCRUB Act will not apply to any rule or set 
of rules relating to any obligation of the Federal Government with 
respect to tribal government or supporting tribal sovereignty and self-
determination.
  Mr. Chair, the United States has a unique legal and political 
relationship with Indian tribal governments, as outlined in the 
Constitution, treaties, statutes, executive orders, and judicial 
decisions. However, too often they have been overlooked when it comes 
to Federal policies that will have a direct impact on that relationship 
and that sovereignty.
  My concern is that, without explicit language, H.R. 998 would simply 
continue this mistake, which has had devastating consequences for our 
Native American brothers and sisters. It has been a decades-long policy 
of the Federal Government to engage Native American tribes in a 
government-to-government relationship that respects their right to 
self-government and self-determination, and my amendment seeks to 
ensure that nothing in this bill will undermine those efforts.
  My amendment would exempt rules that will have an impact on this 
government-to-government relationship from the bill's requirements. 
This will, of course, require agencies and this commission to examine 
the impact on this special relationship in each rule that they bring to 
the chopping block. It makes clear that protecting the sovereignty and 
promoting the economic, political, and social self-determination for 
the Native American community remains a pressing priority.
  Now, just 2 days ago, Mr. Chairman, the House considered and passed a 
bill, H.R. 228, the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services 
Consolidation Act, to make permanent a program that allows tribes to 
combine up to 13 different Federal, employment, childcare, and job 
training funding sources.
  Of course, the sponsor of this legislation, Representative Don Young, 
a true champion for Native Americans, described it well. He said: 
``This program is what tribal self-determination is all about. Tribes 
understand their members best and know how to use these tools for 
creating expanding job opportunities in their communities.''
  The same thing with NAHASDA, which has a lot of innovations, and I 
have worked with Congressman Steve Pearce and Representative Cole and 
others. Once NAHASDA reauthorization becomes law, it, too, might fall 
short because of this particular bill. I fear that the SCRUB Act's 
reckless rush to repeal rules based primarily only on one 
consideration, cost to the economy, will adversely affect Native 
Americans.
  How will members of this commission be experts on the sovereignty and 
government-to-government relationship with tribes? There is no 
appointee for Native American communities on this commission, on the 
needs of native communities, on efforts by Congress to promote self-
determination. The bill requires zero such knowledge and participation.
  Additionally, simply requiring agencies to blindly--blindly--cut 
regulations is just nonsensical by itself.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is the prime example of why we 
need the SCRUB Act. ``Federal Management of Programs that Serve 
Tribes'' was added to the Government Accountability Office biannual 
high-risk report released earlier this month. The GAO reported: ``For 
nearly a decade, we, along with inspectors general, special 
commissions, and others, have reported that federal agencies have 
ineffectively administered Indian education and health care programs 
and inefficiently fulfilled their responsibilities for managing the 
development of Indian energy resources.''
  Look, the GAO found numerous challenges, including poor conditions at 
schools, inadequate healthcare oversight, and mismanagement of energy 
resources that limit the ability of tribes to create economic benefits 
and improve the well-being of their communities.
  Clearly, the Federal Government is not getting this right, and we 
need to exercise our oversight. We need more attention to this issue, 
not less.
  Exempting regulations relating to tribal governments is simply wrong. 
It keeps in place outdated and ineffective regulations that are 
burdening our tribal governments. For these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I 
urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, this is precisely why the Members should 
adopt my amendment: because this is an unelected commission, and the 
relationship between Native American tribes is a government-to-
government relationship.
  If the gentleman is correct that we need to review regulations and 
change them, then that is something that

[[Page H1413]]

needs to happen with Native Americans seated at the table. As my good 
friend Linda Sanchez often points out, when you are not at the table, 
you are definitely on the menu.
  History has shown that failure by the Federal Government to consider 
the impact on tribal communities and to include their voices in Federal 
decisions has often left undesirable and devastating policy. Such 
consideration is disrespectful of their sovereignty and disrespectful 
of our Constitution. Such consideration is a critical need for us to 
create and maintain a strong and productive Federal-tribal 
relationship. I urge my colleagues to support my amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, the regulations that we are talking about in 
the GAO report that are so ineffective, that have been a failure, are 
those regulations that have been imposed by unelectable bureaucrats in 
the bureaucracy that we are trying to reach back and gain not only 
oversight, but transparency as well. The SCRUB Act needs to be there 
for that particular purpose, and, for those reasons, this amendment 
should be opposed.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Wisconsin 
will be postponed.

                              {time}  1345


                Amendment No. 12 Offered by Mr. Cummings

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 12 
printed in House Report 115-20.
  Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       Page 31, after line 24, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION RELATING TO PROTECTIONS FOR 
                   WHISTLEBLOWERS.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules relating to--
       (1) protections for whistleblowers; or
       (2) penalties for retaliation against whistleblowers.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 150, the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. Cummings) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would exempt from this bill 
any rule that protects whistleblowers or that imposes penalties on 
individuals who retaliate against whistleblowers. This bill would 
jeopardize all agency rulemakings--no matter how important--even rules 
that protect whistleblowers.
  The Department of Energy issued a ruling in December that would 
authorize the department to impose civil penalties on Federal nuclear 
contractors who retaliate against whistleblowers who report information 
concerning nuclear safety. On January 31, 2017, DOE put a moratorium on 
that rule in response to President Trump's mandated freeze on 
rulemakings.
  This is exactly the kind of rule that could become a casualty of this 
bill. We must ensure that agencies can issue rules that protect 
individuals who blow the whistle on waste, fraud, and abuse, as well as 
safety issues that can be a matter of life and death.
  Mr. Chairman, I include in the Record a letter from the Project on 
Government Oversight supporting my amendment. That letter states: 
``Whistleblowers are the first and best line of defense against 
significant problems on federal projects and must be protected from 
retribution for the act of reporting wrongdoing. Regulations to protect 
those whistleblowers should be exempt from the SCRUB Act 2017.''

                                                        Project on


                                         Government Oversight,

                                Washington, DC, February 28, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker of the House, House of Representatives, Washington 
         DC.
     Hon. Nancy Pelosi,
     Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Washington DC.
       Dear Speaker Ryan and Minority Leader Pelosi: On behalf of 
     the Project On Government Oversight (POGO), I would like to 
     voice my support for the whistleblower protection amendment 
     to the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are 
     Unnecessarily Burdensome Act of 2017 (SCRUB Act) introduced 
     by Ranking Member Elijah Cummings of the House Oversight and 
     Government Reform Committee.
       POGO is an independent nonprofit that has, for 35 years, 
     investigated and exposed corruption and misconduct in order 
     to achieve a more accountable federal government. As such, 
     our organization is deeply committed to protecting 
     whistleblowers within the federal government and its 
     contractors. This amendment will explicitly protect any 
     agency-promulgated regulations that protect whistleblowers or 
     that lay out penalties for those who retaliate against 
     whistleblowers from being targeted as ``unnecessarily 
     burdensome'' under the SCRUB Act.
       These regulations, like a Department of Energy (DOE) rule 
     that would have allowed the Department to impose civil 
     penalties against contractors who retaliate against 
     whistleblowers, are already being disrupted by the current 
     regulatory freeze. Whistleblowers are the first and best line 
     of defense against significant problems on federal projects 
     and must be protected from retribution for the act of 
     reporting wrongdoing. Regulations to protect those 
     whistleblowers should be exempt from the SCRUB Act of 2017.
       We are happy to champion this amendment and hope it will 
     receive the bipartisan support it deserves.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Danielle Brian,
                                               Executive Director.

  Mr. CUMMINGS. Let me say that whistleblowers have played a very 
significant role in our committee, the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee. As a matter of fact, many of the reforms that have come have 
come because people were bold enough to stand up and come forward and 
provide information that we would not have gotten. One of the things, 
Mr. Chairman, that we have said over and over again on a bipartisan 
basis is that we will protect whistleblowers.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, let me begin by saying that my colleague from 
Maryland, the ranking member of the full committee, has been and 
continues to be probably one of the strongest advocates for 
whistleblower protections, and I thank him and laud him for that. But I 
must disagree with him in regard to this amendment.
  No one regulation is the perfect and ideal regulation that will last 
into perpetuity. All regulations need to be reviewed, and that is what 
this rule does. The commission focuses on rules and regulations that 
are out of date, no longer useful, and are otherwise unnecessary or 
obsolete.
  Regulations that were promulgated with the original intent of 
protecting whistleblowers need updating and consideration as much as 
any other regulation does. Reviewing and revisiting regulations 
promulgated decades ago creates the opportunity to improve upon 
existing standards.
  Excluding whistleblower regulations from this exercise means that 
whistleblowers would lose out on the chance to streamline regulations 
and reduce burdens that might be harming whistleblowers. In fact, this 
process could actually help protect whistleblowers in its oversight and 
transparency.
  Importantly, this bill has several significant procedural hurdles to 
pass before any regulation would be repealed. The commission must 
determine that the regulation is no longer necessary; the commission 
would then recommend repealing the regulation; and, again, most 
significantly, Congress would need to vote on the regulation in order 
to get rid of it.
  Again, for these reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire how much time I have 
remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Maryland has 2\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.

[[Page H1414]]

  

  Mr. CUMMINGS. Let me say this, Mr. Chairman, I have, as the ranking 
member of our committee, had many opportunities to sit and listen to 
whistleblowers who were shaking in their shoes. They were worried. But 
there was something that they wanted to do that was far more important 
to them than just that moment. They were trying to make sure that they 
did the right thing, and they brought it to the attention of people 
that they thought would listen to them and would do something about 
their concerns when they felt they had got to the point where, in many 
instances, they felt that they had nobody to go to.
  This administration has been very interesting. If there is any time 
that we need to be protecting whistleblowers, it is right now because 
there are so many people in our government who feel that they are under 
threat. They see things changing, and many of them are in fear.
  I appreciate what the gentleman said, but I don't care how you look 
at this. If somebody has the nerve to come up and say, I want my 
government to be better--some people have told me, I want to preserve 
my democracy. I want it to be a democracy for my children so they can 
have the democracy that I had when I was born--and they have the nerve 
to come up, then we have to do everything in our power. We have to send 
that message, and the message needs to come from here. It may not come 
from the White House, but it has got to come from here.
  That is why this concerns me so much. Any message other than that 
says to those people that they have got to keep hiding, they have got 
to keep shaking in their boots, and they have got to keep silent when, 
deep in their souls, they want to make a difference.
  We are better than that.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Chairman, again, nothing in the SCRUB Act does anything 
to remove any of the protections that already exist for whistleblowers. 
This essentially makes it open for review, but, more importantly, as I 
agree with my colleague from Maryland, we need to protect the 
whistleblowers. And if it be the focus of Congress to do just that, 
then we must, irrespective of the SCRUB Act, focus on strengthening 
those laws that protect our whistleblowers to make our government run 
more transparently, more effectively, and more efficiently.
  Again, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Cummings).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Maryland 
will be postponed.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will now resume on those amendments printed in House Report 115-20 on 
which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order:
  Amendment No. 8 by Ms. Bonamici of Oregon.
  Amendment No. 10 by Mr. Raskin of Maryland.
  Amendment No. 11 by Ms. Moore of Wisconsin.
  Amendment No. 12 by Mr. Cummings of Maryland.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any 
electronic vote after the first vote in this series.


                Amendment No. 8 Offered by Ms. Bonamici

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Oregon 
(Ms. Bonamici) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 191, 
noes 235, not voting 3, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 109]

                               AYES--191

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--235

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton

[[Page H1415]]


     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Amodei
     Hudson
     McNerney

                              {time}  1419

  Messrs. FERGUSON, PAULSEN, YOUNG of Iowa, MARSHALL, POE of Texas, 
BILIRAKIS, JENKINS of West Virginia, MULLIN, THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, 
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and DUFFY changed their vote from ``aye'' to 
``no.''
  Messrs. PETERS, GALLEGO, and SUOZZI changed their vote from ``no'' to 
``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 10 Offered by Mr. Raskin

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. Raskin) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 189, 
noes 231, not voting 9, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 110]

                               AYES--189

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--231

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tipton
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--9

     Collins (NY)
     Cuellar
     Hudson
     McCaul
     Pelosi
     Rush
     Stivers
     Tiberi
     Trott


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1427

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 11 Offered by Ms. Moore

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Moore) on which further proceedings were postponed and 
on which the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 197, 
noes 229, not voting 3, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 111]

                               AYES--197

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Cole
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Hurd
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan

[[Page H1416]]


     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                               NOES--229

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--3

     Hudson
     Pelosi
     Scott, David


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Collins of Georgia) (during the vote). There is 
1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1432

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 12 Offered by Mr. Cummings

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. Cummings) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 194, 
noes 231, not voting 4, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 112]

                               AYES--194

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (IA)

                               NOES--231

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Zeldin

[[Page H1417]]


  


                             NOT VOTING--4

     Hudson
     Lowenthal
     Pelosi
     Scott, David


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1436

  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Fleischmann). There being no further 
amendments, under the rule, the Committee rises.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Collins of Georgia) having assumed the chair, Mr. Fleischmann, Acting 
Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, 
reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill 
(H.R. 998) to provide for the establishment of a process for the review 
of rules and sets of rules, and for other purposes, and, pursuant to 
House Resolution 150, he reported the bill back to the House with 
sundry amendments adopted in the Committee of the Whole.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is 
ordered.
  Is a separate vote demanded on any amendment reported from the 
Committee of the Whole? If not, the Chair will put them en gros.
  The amendments were agreed to.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third 
reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time and adopted.


                           Motion to Recommit

  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentleman opposed to the bill?
  Mr. RASKIN. I am, indeed.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:

       Mr. Raskin moves to recommit the bill H.R. 998 to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform with 
     instructions to report the same back to the House forthwith 
     with the following amendment:
       At the end of the bill, add the following new title (and 
     update the table of contents accordingly):

                          TITLE VI--EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 601. EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN RULES OR SETS OF RULES.

       The provisions of this Act do not apply to any rule or set 
     of rules relating to--
       (1) any law governing a potential conflict of interest of 
     an employee or officer of the executive branch;
       (2) any law governing the financial disclosures of an 
     employee or officer of the executive branch; and
       (3) bribery.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Maryland is recognized 
for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, this is the final amendment to the bill, 
which will not kill the bill or send it back to the committee. If 
adopted, the bill will immediately proceed to final passage, as 
amended.
  The purpose of this amendment is simply to carve out from the 
provisions of the legislation any rules that we have adopted in order 
to prevent conflicts of interest and in order to promote financial 
transparency and disclosure by executive branch employees.
  Mr. Speaker, since I became a Member of the House in January and 
joined the Judiciary Committee, we have been subjected to an onslaught 
of bills seeking to free corporate polluters, lead paint and asbestos 
manufacturers, and other abusers of the rights of consumers and 
citizens from having to face the people they injure in court and having 
to comply with the rules that have been worked out over the decades to 
protect our air, our water, our land, our people, our health, and our 
workplaces.
  In most cases, we don't even get hearings on these bills. In the 
Judiciary Committee, I have not seen a victim of toxic torts or lead 
poisoning or medical malpractice testify, but their rights are being 
flattened every single day by the legislative bulldozer that is running 
amuck.
  These bills are flying at us with lightning speed--no hearings, no 
real debate, no time to study the measures, no time to do the proper 
information gathering for our constituents.
  Now the SCRUB Act would establish an unelected roving commission with 
unlimited subpoena power. It would be controlled by the President who 
gets to appoint a clean majority--five members at his own discretion; 
and four more, two Republicans and two Democrats. So when they say it 
is bipartisan, remember what that means: Seven spots for majority 
appointees and two spots for minority appointees. More importantly, 
this roving commission can be lobbied behind closed doors by the 
special interests that want to splice and dice the regulations that we 
have worked out over the decades to protect the public against harm.
  In all of the rules that our democracy has put in place--not just old 
rules, not just obsolete rules, not just silly rules--all of them are 
going to be in the crosshairs of this roving commission--no exceptions, 
no firewalls, no protections for rules governing public health and 
safety--like the Clean Water Act or like the Clean Air Act. They just 
rejected the amendment to carve that out. There are no protections, 
significantly, and this is what the amendment is about, for rules 
guaranteeing transparency in government and integrity in government.
  My motion to recommit, Mr. Speaker, would incorporate into the 
underlying legislation an amendment that I advanced in committee that 
goes to the heart of the crisis of confidence in Washington, in America 
today. I think every Member of this body can support it without 
betraying any of their principles or their party. On the contrary, I 
think it strengthens all of our principles and it strengthens our 
parties by building public confidence in the political system as a 
whole. It makes sure we can keep draining the swamp, as the President 
of the United States said in this Chamber last night.
  My amendment states very simply that the Commission may not target 
for destruction any rules relating to any law governing a potential 
conflict of interest of an employee or officer of the executive branch, 
or any law governing the financial disclosures of executive branch 
employees, and bribery.
  Right now, we know there is a dangerous crisis in popular confidence 
in the national government. This administration has brought to 
Washington a web of complicated conflicts of interest, real or 
potential, attendant to a global business empire that engages in 
business with foreign governments, foreign and domestic corporations, 
and a huge host of regulated entities.
  Just a mile from where we sit today, for example, the Trump Hotel is 
renting out guest rooms, ballrooms, meeting rooms, and whole floors to 
foreign governments, embassies, and large corporations in flagrant 
violation of the Emoluments Clause, article 1, section 9, which 
requires the President to come ask us--Congress--for permission to 
receive payments from foreign governments.

                              {time}  1445

  They even have a director of diplomatic sales now. Furthermore, the 
standard lease that the Trump Hotel has with the General Services 
Administration forbids any elected official of the United States 
Government or the District of Columbia from deriving any profit or 
value from the lease. Clearly, there is a breach in this lease right 
now. The problem is that the President is not only the tenant, he is, 
for all intents and purposes, the landlord too because he controls the 
GSA and appoints its director. So President-landlord Donald Trump would 
have to go to court to sue tenant businessman Donald Trump for 
breaching the lease by collecting money under it as a public official. 
This just scratches the surface of a welter of ethical conflicts.
  Mr. Speaker, this is the final amendment to the bill which will not 
kill the bill or send it back to committee. If adopted, the bill will 
immediately proceed to final passage as amended.
  Since I became a member of this House in January, my Freshman 
colleagues and I have been engaged in two activities. First, we've been 
sitting in hearings and trying to make sense of bills that 
fundamentally change the legal and regulatory structure of America--and 
we've done so without hearing from witnesses, without time to study 
measures, and without time to do the proper information gathering that 
I believe is necessary to serve our various constituencies. Second, 
we've come to the floor at the end of each day to cast votes on 
deregulation. This house has been in the business of loosening rules on 
everything. We've

[[Page H1418]]

made it easier to pollute, easier to harm consumers--all in the name of 
cutting regulatory costs. And so it's no surprise that a bill like this 
sailed through the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to the 
floor.
  This bill would establish an unelected commission with unlimited 
subpoena power and partisan majority to chop through the Federal 
Register with a chain saw. There are no exceptions, no firewalls, no 
protections for rules and regulations governing health and safety and 
there are no protections for rules guaranteeing transparency in 
government.
  My motion to recommit would incorporate into the underlying 
legislation, an amendment I offered in committee. It's straightforward 
and unburdensome. In fact, when I offered it in committee one of my 
colleagues on the other side indicated that the priority of this bill 
is ``major rules with massive costs.''
  If passed, this MTR would make certain that no provision of the SCRUB 
Act could be used to eliminate rules relating to laws that govern 
conflicts of interest of executive branch officers or employees. That's 
it--it reinforces existing law and clarifies provisions of this bill.
  Surely, we can agree that rules designed to help maintain the public 
trust in those representing them in the Executive Branch are sacred 
enough to be explicitly protected. And if anyone should ask why it's so 
important, we don't have to look too far. This administration is a 
walking, talking billboard for the need to protect laws that protect 
the public trust.
  I urge my colleagues to support this common sense measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the motion.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Florida is recognized for 
5 minutes.
  Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, it is interesting because creatively my friend 
from Maryland is trying to do unsuccessfully what they have done all 
along unsuccessfully, and that is just create a carve-out of 
regulations for review by the SCRUB Act.
  Now, what regulation is so perfect it should never be reviewed again? 
None. And that is why the SCRUB Act is so important. You see, this bill 
went through regular order.
  In the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, we went through a 
markup, and my friends across the aisle had an opportunity to make 
their amendments. We came to the floor. They had an opportunity to make 
their amendments. Two were accepted--made it a bipartisan bill.
  But, more importantly, let's take the impact of this bill and what it 
does to our economy. The Small Business Administration says that 
annually each business must pay $20,000 a year in compliance costs 
because of our regulatory environment. The Competitive Enterprise 
Institute says that that is $15,000 per household.
  Members, we were elected to be accountable to those who elected us; 
not to allow some unaccountable, unelectable bureaucracy to make rules 
and regulations that have filled up 178,000 pages of the Code of 
Federal Regulations.
  Let us do what we were elected to do, and reach back and take that 
authority that we have given to these regulatory agencies. Let us pass 
this SCRUB Act so that we will have the opportunity to not only review, 
but eliminate those regulations that are no longer necessary, 
inefficient, and ineffective.
  Members, I ask for you to oppose this motion and vote for the 
underlying SCRUB Act and let us regain the authority that the people 
have given us.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule 
XX, the 5-minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by 5-
minute votes on the passage of the bill, if ordered; ordering the 
previous question on House Resolution 156; and adoption of the 
resolution, if ordered.
  This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 190, 
noes 235, not voting 4, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 113]

                               AYES--190

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--235

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack

[[Page H1419]]


     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--4

     Capuano
     Hudson
     Pelosi
     Scott, David


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1500

  Messrs. COFFMAN, DesJARLAIS, and Mrs. COMSTOCK changed their vote 
from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  So the motion to recommit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 240, 
noes 185, not voting 4, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 114]

                               AYES--240

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Chaffetz
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gibbs
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     Labrador
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Peterson
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Rush
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Scalise
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--185

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cummings
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gohmert
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Jones
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Massie
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meeks
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Nadler
     Napolitano
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--4

     Hudson
     Pelosi
     Rogers (KY)
     Scott, David

                              {time}  1507

  Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER changed her vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  So the bill was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



