

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2640]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA: NCAA CHAMPIONS

  (Mr. PRICE of North Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's men's 
basketball team for winning the 2017 NCAA Division I National 
Championship, in the face of a spirited challenge from Gonzaga 
University.
  As a proud alumnus of UNC-Chapel Hill, the Nation's first public 
university, I was delighted to cheer on the entire team--players, 
coaches, and staff--during their outstanding performance yesterday in 
the Nation's most competitive and most popular collegiate athletic 
tournament.
  The Tar Heels have now played in a record 20 NCAA Final Four games, 
the most of all time, and last night marked their sixth NCAA National 
Championship and seventh overall National Championship. The years 1957, 
1982, 1993, 2005, and 2009 are seared in the minds of North Carolina 
basketball fans, and I know I speak for our entire State when I say how 
delighted we are to add 2017 to that list!
  The teamwork, camaraderie, and determination of this year's team were 
evident throughout the entire season as they struggled to overcome 
their heartbreaking defeat in the last seconds of the 2016 National 
Championship game. While their tournament finishes may have been a 
little closer than we wished, the team managed six wins against a 
formidable slate of opponents. These 15 young men played hard, played 
smart, and played together.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the names of the players, 
coaches, and staff.

                      UNC Men's Basketball Roster

       Nate Britt, Upper Marlboro, Md.; Theo Pinson, Greensboro, 
     N.C.; Joel Berry, II, Apopka, Fla.; Kennedy Meeks, Charlotte, 
     N.C.; Isaiah Hicks, Oxford, N.C.; Tony Bradley, Bartow, Fla.; 
     Shea Rush, Fairway, Kan.; Kanler Coker, Gainesville, Ga.; 
     Brandon Robinson, Douglasville, Ga.; Seventh Woods, Columbia, 
     S.C.; Aaron Rohlman, Gastonia, N.C.; Stilman White, 
     Wilmington, N.C.; Luke Maye, Huntersville, N.C.; Justin 
     Jackson, Tomball, Texas; Roy Williams, Head Coach; Steve 
     Robinson, Assistant Coach; Hubert Davis, Assistant Coach; 
     C.B. McGrath, Assistant Coach; Brad Frederick, Director of 
     Basketball Operations; Sean May, Director of Player 
     Personnel; Jonas Sahratian, Strength & Conditioning 
     Coordinator; Eric Hoots, Director of Player Development.

  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, we could not be prouder of 
our team's victory last night.
  To paraphrase the greatest basketball player of all time and a fellow 
UNC alumnus, Michael Jordan, who was perhaps channeling Yogi Berra, 
``The ceiling truly is the roof.''
  Hark the sound, and Go Heels!

                          ____________________



