

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S654]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING JOE BILL DEARING

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to remember Joe Bill 
Dearing, an Arkansan with a big heart who loved to tell a good story 
and was a legend in Hereford cattle breeding. He passed away on Monday, 
January 30, 2017, at the age of 88.
  Joe was born in Harrison, AR. He married his high school sweetheart, 
Dennie, in 1947, and the couple pursued a career in farming at their 
Red Robin Farm.
  Joe came from a family of farmers so his passion for the industry and 
dedication to his craft came as no surprise. He established a 
nationally recognized herd of Polled Hereford cattle and became an 
internationally recognized Hereford cattle breeder.
  This success also earned them the recognition of ``Boone County 
Family Farm of the Year'' in 1973.
  He took his expertise to Montana in 1978 to work in the cattle 
industry and was active on the national cattle show circuit, winning 
the award for national champion bull in 1994 and 1995.
  After his decades of raising cattle, he could still remember in 
detail his prized animals. He was more than happy to share pictures and 
stories of his cattle.
  Joe was a longtime member of the Union Baptist Church where he served 
as a deacon, church secretary, and treasurer.
  The Dearings were so kind to my daughters when they were showing cows 
through 4-H. We spent countless hours with Joe and Dennie traveling all 
over the country, and we witnessed the great examples of integrity and 
character that defined their lives.
  Joe Dearing left a lasting legacy. He was a beloved husband, friend, 
community member, and cattle rancher. I was proud to call him my 
friend, and in fact, he and Dennie always seemed more like family. He 
will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones 
during this difficult time.

                          ____________________



