

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H109]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  DON'T REPEAL THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

  (Mr. PALLONE asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, Americans today have better health coverage 
and health care, thanks to the Affordable Care Act.
  The ACA has expanded and protected coverage for millions of 
Americans. More than 20 million previously uninsured Americans have 
newfound health security, including 95 percent of America's children.
  I just want to mention two of my constituents who tweeted me within 
the last day or so about the ACA. One is from Laurence Harbor. It said: 
``The ACA provided additional health care for my autistic son who had 
aged out on my employer's health plan. Attempts in the interim to find 
a healthcare plan for him were thwarted by insurance companies that did 
not want to cover him.''
  Another one of my constituents from Marlboro, New Jersey, said: The 
``ACA helped me to stay on my parent's healthcare for 3 years after 
college, which was a huge relief in a tough job market.''
  There are so many cases, Mr. Speaker. I could go on all afternoon. 
The bottom line is the Affordable Care Act is also controlling costs 
for millions of Americans. Premium growth has slowed over the last 6 
years, compared to the years before the ACA.
  Mr. Speaker, if Republicans proceed with repealing the ACA, they will 
make America sick again. They will rip health care away from 30 million 
people and raise premiums for millions of others.
  Repealing the ACA will move us from true care to total chaos. 
Republicans are blinded to the success of the Affordable Care Act. 
Repealing the Affordable Care Act is not logical, it is ideological, 
and I would strongly urge my Republican colleagues to start looking at 
this practically rather than ideologically.

                          ____________________



