

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H995]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING JIM BOEHEIM'S COACHING CAREER

  (Mr. KATKO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Syracuse University 
basketball coach Jim Boeheim upon the occasion of his 1,000th win this 
past Saturday over the mighty Virginia Cavaliers.
  Coach Boeheim has dedicated over 40 years of his life to Syracuse 
University, and he and his wife, Juli, are known locally for their 
outstanding generosity and philanthropy.
  While central New York happily celebrated Coach Boeheim's 1,000th win 
this past weekend, the occasion was not recognized by the NCAA due to 
arbitrarily harsh sanctions that followed an 8-year investigation that 
eliminated scholarship opportunities for students and that vacated 
Coach Boeheim of 108 wins.
  While we cannot stand for impropriety in collegiate athletics, we 
must have transparency, consistency, and fairness from the NCAA--an 
organization that is charged with promoting higher education 
opportunities and protecting the welfare of students. That is why I 
have and will continue to champion bipartisan legislation in the House 
to reform the NCAA and bring accountability and due process to this 
organization. There is no denying that Jim Boeheim was the coach for 
1,000 basketball wins at Syracuse University, and the NCAA should 
recognize that fact.
  Our community celebrates and congratulates Coach Boeheim for this 
tremendous achievement, and it is my high honor to recognize him here 
today.
  Congratulations, Coach--and Go Orange.

                          ____________________



