

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S744]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO WILLIAM ``BILL'' CANTY

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I wish to recognize and commend William 
``Bill'' Canty of Oxford, MS, on the occasion of his retirement after a 
distinguished 27-year career as a staff member for the U.S. Senate.
  Bill has earned my respect and that of the thousands of people in 
north Mississippi who know him as a dedicated field representative on 
my staff.
  I am confident that the tenacity, loyalty, and work ethic that 
characterized Bill's work for me were forged early in life with the 
lessons he learned as an outstanding student athlete.
  Bill grew up in the shipbuilding town of Pascagoula, MS, where he 
earned letters in basketball, baseball, and football. As a college 
freshman at Furman University, he started at quarterback for the 
Paladins and set school records throughout his college football career, 
completing 215 passes for 2,460 yards and 24 touchdowns. He was elected 
unanimously in 1988 for induction into the Furman University Hall of 
Fame.
  Bill played professional football for the Toronto Argonauts, a 
Canadian Football League organization, but was soon called to serve his 
country. After serving as an Army combat training officer, he began an 
extensive coaching career during which he earned a reputation for 
developing quarterbacks and strong passing offenses--first at Furman, 
then at Florida State University and the University of New Mexico.
  In 1978, Bill returned home to Mississippi to coach at the University 
of Mississippi. He is one of the only coaches in the SEC to ever have 
been both the offensive and defensive coordinator in back to back 
seasons. Bill left coaching in 1987 and settled in Oxford.
  Following his coaching career, Bill turned his leadership talents in 
a new direction. Fellow Pascagoula native and former U.S. Senator Trent 
Lott first hired Bill as a field representative, and I was fortunate to 
bring him on my staff in 2008.
  Bill has served my office and the people of Mississippi honorably and 
with great dedication.
  I am deeply grateful for having the benefit of his excellent service 
to our State and Nation.

                          ____________________



