

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO ELLEN WOOD

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Ellen Wood of Winnett. Ellen has been serving up 
hospitality to the folks in Petroleum County for the past 25 years. Her 
culinary prowess have also pleased the tastebuds of many others well 
beyond her central Montana community.
  In 1992, Ellen decided it was time to make an occupational change and 
purchased the Kozy Korner Bar and Cafe. It was not long after that The 
Kozy Korner became known for its delicious pies. Hunters, ranchers, 
tourists, and locals are all fortunate if they get a slice. Some even 
call ahead just to make sure they will not leave empty handed. You know 
a pie is good when you have to make reservations. Ellen has even 
shipped her homemade pies to repeat customers around the country. In 
addition to her pies, Gourmet Magazine did an article in 2005 on 
Ellen's plate-sized pancakes. It is no wonder that every 5 years during 
the Winnett all-school class reunion, the Kozy Korner serves as a hub 
of activity for the local community. A quarter century of hospitality 
and service to her neighbors and guests is a great accomplishment.
  Being a small business owner is tough work, but Ellen had a trusted 
partner in her husband, Buck. He was U.S. Marine Corps veteran with 
over 4 years of service in Vietnam. He helped her run the Kozy Korner 
until he passed away in 2014. Today Buck's Bacon Cheeseburger is still 
one of the favorite menu items for Kozy Korner patrons. Hometown cafes 
are a staple of our Montana communities and so are people like Ellen 
and Buck. With that community spirit in mind, it is an honor to say 
thank you to Ellen for making a corner of Petroleum County a 
comfortable place to visit. If you are going to stop in, just remember 
to call ahead if you want a piece of the marionberry pie.

                          ____________________



