

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1848]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


             Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on March 15, 2017, at 10 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Assessing U.S. Sanctions on Russia: Next 
Steps.''


            Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
15, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 106 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                 Environment and Public Works Committee

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 15, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 15, 2017, at 11 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Six Years of War in Syria: The Human Toll.''


                      Homeland Security Committee

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
15, 2017, at 10 a.m.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on March 15, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Vows for Visas: Investigating K-1 Fiance Fraud.''


                      Veterans' Affairs Committee

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 15, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in SR-
418, to conduct a hearing entitled, ``GAO's High Risk List and the 
Veterans Health Administration.''


                    Select Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, March 15, 2017, from 1:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building.


                        Subcommittee on Airland

  The Subcommittee on Airland of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, March 
15, 2017, at 3:30 p.m.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

                  Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism

  The Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on March 15, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m. in room SD-226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building.

                          ____________________



