

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1899-S1900]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NOMINATION OF NEIL GORSUCH

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on another matter, as day 2 of the Neil 
Gorsuch Supreme Court confirmation hearings continued, Senators and the 
American people were able to learn more about his experience as a 
jurist and his aptitude to serve on the High Court. We heard directly 
from Judge Gorsuch about his views on the role of a judge--to be fair 
and impartial, independent, and not beholden to one party over another. 
We heard directly from Judge Gorsuch about his views on the role of the 
Court to uphold the Constitution and interpret the laws as written, not 
legislating from the bench.
  We saw him display a masterful knowledge of the law, along with 
independence, thoughtfulness, and just the kind of judicial temperament 
we expect in a Supreme Court Justice. News outlets across the country 
took notice. This is from a CNN report:


[[Page S1900]]


  

       Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch came to the Senate 
     Judiciary Committee Tuesday prepared to deliver a clear 
     message: I'm a judge, not a politician. . . . Sitting at a 
     small table, he turned to listen to each Senator as they 
     spoke, hour after hour, carefully writing notes before 
     launching into his replies.

  As CNN noted, the questions ``never rattled him'' and ``he showed 
command of the law.''
  NPR took note of Judge Gorsuch's temperament saying: ``He kept an 
even keel throughout the day, rarely betraying more than a hint of 
impatience or pique.''
  Here is one take from the Washington Post. It said:

       Gorsuch is not easily flustered.
       Gorsuch presented himself as the picture of a cool, calm, 
     self-assured justice.
       His face often broke into a relaxed smile. He appeared to 
     be listening to every word every Senator said, and he rarely 
     stumbled.

  And here is another take from the Post:

       After more than 10 years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
     the 10th Circuit, [Judge Neil] Gorsuch was prepared for how 
     to respond to questions about judicial independence and how a 
     judge should consider a decision outside his personal 
     political ideology.

  These are observations made from outside viewers. Their insights 
reflect what we have been saying for weeks--that Judge Gorsuch is 
exceptionally qualified to serve on the Supreme Court.
  I hope our Democratic friends take notice and give him the fair 
consideration he deserves, not invent more excuses not to. Because 
Judge Gorsuch has performed exceedingly well, some Democrats are 
desperately trying to come up with a reason to delay the process, just 
as they have done all year on other nominations.
  The Judiciary Committee is continuing its work today. As it does so, 
I am confident we will continue to see support grow for Judge Gorsuch.

                          ____________________



