

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H246]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NATIONAL CHAMPION CLEMSON UNIVERSITY TIGERS

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, early this morning, the 
Clemson University Tigers achieved the College Football National 
Championship in what was one of the most stunning and unforgettable 
endings to a football game. Trailing behind the formidable University 
of Alabama for the majority of the game, the Clemson Tigers refused to 
be defeated, culminating in a come-from-behind win at literally the 
last second.
  Throughout the entire season, the Clemson football team has shown 
guts, grit, and determination to their team, their school, and the 
State of South Carolina. This was a well-deserved win for a remarkable 
school and a remarkable program. I join my two sons, Julian and Hunter, 
who graduated from Clemson, and Clemson fans from across the Nation in 
celebrating this historic victory.
  Congratulations to Clemson superstars Deshaun Watson and Ben 
Boulware, who were named most valuable players for the game. 
Congratulations as well to President Jim Clements and his wife, Beth. 
They are continuing in the world class tradition of Jim and Marcia 
Barker.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and may the President, by his 
actions, never forget September the 11th in the global war on 
terrorism.
  Congratulations, Dabo Swinney and the entire Clemson football family. 
Go Tigers.

                          ____________________



