

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1931]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 REMEMBERING PABLITA TA-NEZ-BAH ABEYTA

 Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, Ta-Nez-Bah means in Navajo ``one who 
completes a circle.'' Ta-Nez-Bah was an apt middle name for Pablita 
Abeyta whose life encircled art, advocacy, and dedication to Native 
peoples.
  Pablita Ta-Nez-Bah Abeyta was born in Gallup, NM, in 1953, to Narciso 
Ha-So-De Abeyta and Sylvia Ann (Shipley) Abeyta. Her father was Navajo 
and an internationally recognized painter and silversmith. Her mother 
was Anglo and a Quaker and an accomplished ceramist and weaver in her 
own right.
  Pablita and her six siblings were raised in and around the arts and 
the traditions of the Navajo people. Each had an artistic talent. Her 
sister Elizabeth was a masterful sculptor and ceramic artist; her 
brother Tony is a highly acclaimed painter and jeweler; and her sister 
Alice Seely is a nationally recognized sculptor, painter, and jeweler.
  Pablita attended the Institute for American Indian Arts in Santa Fe 
and received a masters in public affairs from the University of New 
Mexico in 1983.
  She then headed off to Washington, DC, where she would combine 
advocacy and art the rest of her life and where she would play a key 
role in founding the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the 
American Indian, NMAI.
  Pablita had a full career on Capitol Hill for many years until her 
retirement, always advocating for Native causes. She lobbied for the 
Navajo Nation; worked as a legislative aide to U.S. Representative Ben 
Nighthorse Campbell from Colorado; staffed the U.S. House Interior 
Committee's Office of Indian Affairs under my uncle, U.S. 
Representative Mo Udall; held a legislative liaison position at the 
Smithsonian Institute; and served as special assistant with the NMAI.
  Pablita attended the first congressional hearing on NMAI in 1987, 
worked for its establishment through congressional legislation, and 
worked on its highly successful private fundraising drive. Her work was 
instrumental to starting and building the museum.
  Pablita was also an accomplished sculptor. Inspired by the strength, 
beauty, and serenity of Native women, her sculptures have been 
described as ``smooth, round and sensuous.'' Her artwork won many 
awards at the Santa Fe Indian Market, was included in a Smithsonian 
National Museum of American History exhibition, and is held in the 
permanent collection of the NMAI. Pablita commented of her sculptures 
that ``. . . the female figurines sing, talk, and reflect the seasons 
and Navajo spiritual ceremony. I am making a statement with my art 
about the importance of family, community and my heritage.''
  Pablita passed away January 31, 2017, at age 63. She completed many 
circles in her life, and I honor all that she accomplished.

                          ____________________



