

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1299-S1300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               RECOGNIZING BENNETT LUMBER PRODUCTS, INC.

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, Idaho's small businesses and the 
entrepreneurs behind them are known for their perseverance and get-it-
done mentality. They have a seemingly innate understanding of the 
importance of delivering the highest quality products and services. 
Successful small businesses are also known for their commitment to 
getting the job done right. These qualities are on display in this 
month's Small Business of the Month. Located in north Idaho's rich 
timber country, this month's honoree is well known in my home State for 
its strong commitment to its local community and sustainable forestry. 
As chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to recognize Bennett Lumber Products, 
Inc., as the Senate Small Business of the Month for February 2017.
  Led by a legendary lumberman, Mr. Frank Bennett, Bennett Lumber 
Products, Inc., is a family-owned and operated company headquartered in 
Princeton, ID. The company has two highly efficient mills, one in 
Princeton, ID, and the other in Clarkston, WA. Bennett Lumber also owns 
and sustainably manages approximately 70,000 acres of forest lands 
throughout the Northwest. The Idaho location, originally known as 
Boones' Mill, was purchased by Bennett Lumber in the early 1950s. The 
company invested in upgrading the old mill's equipment and modernized 
its processes in order to mill smaller dimension logs with a largely 
automated milling process. Always at the forefront of innovation in the 
lumber industry, Bennett Lumber implemented

[[Page S1300]]

the use of a mechanical lumber sorter in 1972, which set the company 
apart as being ahead of its time. In addition to their commitment to 
innovation and efficiency, owners and employees of Bennett Lumber pride 
themselves on producing high-quality products while also adhering to 
sustainable land management principles.
  Bennett Lumber also displays a commitment to the communities in which 
the company operates by contributing to the Idaho Forest Products 
Commission's Project Learning Tree. This award-winning organization is 
dedicated to children's environmental education programs that help to 
teach students about land stewardship. Bennett Lumber also organizes 
youth summer reading programs, scholarship awards, school forestry 
tours, 4-H projects, and contributes to the Distinguished Young Women 
of Idaho Program. I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations 
to the employees and owners of Bennett Lumber Products, Inc., for being 
selected as the February Small Business of the Month. You make our 
great State proud, and I look forward to watching your continued growth 
and success.

                          ____________________



