

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1930]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE VIETNAM WAR

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, this month Togus VA Maine Healthcare System 
will observe the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam war by honoring 
veterans of the Vietnam war era and their families. Togus will welcome 
veterans, their families, and communities in a ceremony at the Togus 
Theater in Augusta on March 23, 2017, to commemorate their service and 
sacrifices and to thank them for dedicating both strength and service 
in defense of our freedom.
  Throughout the war, the United States deployed nearly 3 million 
servicemembers to Vietnam. Over 58,200 Americans made the ultimate 
sacrifice, and more than 150,000 were wounded during the conflict. Our 
veterans selflessly served this country, and they deserve to be 
recognized for their unwavering patriotism, courage, and resilience 
that exemplifies the strength of the American spirit and our Nation's 
commitment to democracy worldwide.
  Maine played a critical role in the war effort. Those who served in 
the Vietnam war represent the largest contingent of veterans in Maine, 
and their record of service has earned them our eternal gratitude. 
Nearly 48,000 soldiers from Maine served in Vietnam, and almost 350 
Mainers lost their lives or went missing in action during the war.
  For this observance of the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam war, I am 
proud to recognize the brave Americans who served, both overseas and 
here on the homefront. Their service makes this country great, and 
their countless personal sacrifices to protect our freedoms can never 
be fully repaid. It is my honor to express my gratitude to our veterans 
for their service during the Vietnam war and their many contributions 
to the State of Maine and our great Nation.

                          ____________________



