

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1132-H1133]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1030
                 HISTORIC BRISTOL BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about Bristol 
Borough, Pennsylvania, a picturesque town in my district situated along 
the Delaware River midway between Philadelphia and New York. Since 
1824, Bristol Borough has embraced the motto ``Welcome Friend'' after a 
sign greeted Marquis de Lafayette on his ``Farewell Tour of America.'' 
Bristol Borough continues to welcome newcomers to an incredibly caring 
community of residents and leaders pushing the town into the future.
  Bristol Borough's history closely parallels the economic, commercial, 
and industrial history of the United States. In the late 1960s, U.S. 
Steel Corporation closed their facilities just up the road, and 
thousands of employees lost their jobs. In turn, downtown Bristol 
Borough lost an incredible amount of traffic. But what the people did 
not lose was their passionate desire to improve their town, restoring 
its former glory with an eye to an even brighter future.
  Mr. Speaker, the people of Bristol Borough are tough, resilient, and 
they have grit. Small-business owners in downtown Bristol are 
revitalizing their town, and they have been noticed. As a finalist in 
the nationwide Small Business Revolution, Bristol Borough shines a 
spotlight on the vital impact small businesses have on our economy, our 
communities, and our daily lives.
  As a member of the House Committee on Small Business, I pledge my 
commitment to pursue policies that protect and foster these small 
businesses and that make Bucks County truly a great place to live.


                            Opioid Epidemic

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, heroin and prescription opioid abuse 
are devastating communities across

[[Page H1133]]

our Nation. From Levittown to Lower Salford, no part of my district is 
left unaffected by this epidemic. Last year in Bucks County, opioid-
related deaths rose by 50 percent. In Montgomery County, opioid 
overdoses claimed a staggering 240 lives.
  Mr. Speaker, every fatality represents a family crushed by the 
overwhelming loss of a loved one. As lawmakers, we have the 
responsibility to act. Passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and 
Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act were monumental first steps 
in countering the opioid crisis, but we must continue to press the 
issue from all sides, from the trafficking of narcotics across our 
border to preventing the overprescribing of painkillers.
  Congress alone cannot solve this problem. We must be ready and 
willing to work with State and local leaders, law enforcement, 
healthcare professionals, and educators in our districts. We are all 
stakeholders in this challenge. Together, we can eradicate this 
epidemic, we can protect our families, and we can free our communities 
from this menace.

                          ____________________



