

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H314]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               WE MUST STRENGTHEN FLIGHT SAFETY MEASURES

  (Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr. Speaker, nearly 8 years ago, western New 
Yorkers watched in horror as Continental flight 3407crashed, tragically 
ending the lives of those on board. Since then, the families of those 
lost have turned their grief into arelentless fight to strengthen pilot 
training and flight safety rules.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  January 11, 2017 on Page H314 the following appeared: (Mr. 
HIGGINS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1minute.) Mr. HIGGINS. Mr. Speaker, nearly 8
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: Mr. HIGGINS of 
New York asked and was given permission to address the Housefor 1 
minute.) Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr. Speaker, nearly 8


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  Today, the families of flight 3407 are in attendance at the Senate 
nomination hearing for the new Secretary ofTransportation. Their 
presence is an urgent reminder that the work of Congress and the 
administration still remains to be done.
  In 2010, Congress passed landmark flight safety legislation with the 
families of 3407 leading the charge. Since then, therehave been nearly 
8 years of no fatal commercial crashes on domestic U.S. airlines. Now 
the Federal Aviation Administrationreauthorization is on the horizon, 
and we must further strengthen flight safety measures.
  It is essential that we continue to stand alongside the families of 
flight 3407 and fight attempts to roll back pilottraining and safety 
provisions. We must not forget those we lost nearly 8 years ago and do 
all that is possible to preventanother tragedy of this kind.

                          ____________________



