

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S591-S592]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                        TRIBUTE TO RON CHASTAIN

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize MG Ron 
Chastain for his four decades of service to the State of Arkansas and 
to our Nation. For 32 years, he worked at the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture's Farm Service Agency and served for the last 6 years as my 
Agricultural Liaison in Arkansas. He has also enjoyed a distinguished 
military career in the Arkansas National Guard that spanned nearly four 
decades.
  Ron was born and raised in Arkansas and graduated from Arkansas Tech 
University with a degree in biology in 1972. In 1974, he began his 
career with the USDA. He was the supervisory program specialist in 
Arkansas and dealt with Federal farm programs at the county, district, 
and State levels. He is a recipient of the USDA Service to Agriculture 
Award and also received recognition for his suggestions that improved 
the administration of Federal farm programs.
  At the same time, Major General Chastain was a dedicated member of 
the Army National Guard serving our State and Nation on weekends, 
evenings, and multiple overseas deployments. While in uniform, he 
honorably served as deputy commanding general for the Arkansas Army 
National Guard at the U.S. Army Forces Command, the adjutant general of 
the Arkansas National Guard, as Chief of Staff, wartime, of U.S. Forces 
Korea, commander of the 39th Brigade Combat Team in Iraq, and commander 
of the 25th Rear Operations Center during Operation Desert Storm. A 
veteran of two wars, Major General Chastain was awarded the Army 
Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, and two Bronze Star 
medals. He has also been inducted into the distinguished Arkansas 
Military Veterans' Hall of Fame.
  In 2010, ``the General'' retired from the Arkansas Army National 
Guard. Shortly thereafter, I called to congratulate him on his 
impressive military career, and during our conversation, he said he 
would be happy to help me in any way he could. I knew that he could 
bring his unique experience and expertise to help me represent the 
agriculture community in Arkansas, so I asked him to join my staff.
  As a member of my team, Major General Chastain has been a 
professional

[[Page S592]]

and tireless advocate on behalf of Arkansas' farmers and ranchers. The 
Arkansas Farm Bureau recently recognized his hard work and contribution 
to our State's agriculture community. Ron also educated thousands of 
young Arkansans about the history and proper care of the U.S. and 
Arkansas flags during his time with my office.
  MG Ron Chastain dedicated his career to leading and serving others. I 
want to thank him for all that he has done on behalf of Arkansas, and I 
wish him well on his retirement. I know he will enjoy spending more 
time with his family and working on his farm. As a model public servant 
for so many years, his retirement and all the recognition he has 
garnered are well deserved.

                          ____________________



