

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1313]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I have seven requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.


                      COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 16, 2017, at 9:30 a.m.


           COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
February 16, 2017, at 10:30 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate 
Office Building. The committee will hold a subcommittee hearing on 
``Stakeholder Perspectives on Improving TSA for the Security of the 
Traveling Public.''


                          COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, February 16, 2017, in 215 Dirksen Senate Office 
Building.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 16, 2017, at 10:05 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                 COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION

  The Committee on Rules and Administration is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Thursday, February 16, 2017, at 10 
a.m.


                    SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

  The Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet during the 
session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Thursday, February 
16, 2017, from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building.


   SUBCOMMITTEE ON WESTERN HEMISPHERE, TRANSNATIONAL CRIME, CIVILIAN 
      SECURITY, DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND GLOBAL WOMEN'S ISSUES

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the Western 
Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human 
Rights, and Global Women's Issues is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, February 16, 2017, at 2:45 p.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Democracy and Human Rights: The Case for U.S. 
Leadership.''

                          ____________________



