

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1941]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT RESOLUTION

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, Mr. President, on the business before the Senate 
today, recently a Washington Post article noted that Congress has 
undertaken the ``most ambitious regulatory rollback since Reagan.'' 
Already, we passed 10 resolutions under the Congressional Review Act to 
end Obama administration regulations that slow economic growth, 
threaten jobs, and hold our country back. As one study estimates, our 
action to overturn these regulations could save Americans nearly $4 
billion and more than 4 million hours of paperwork.
  This week, we have continued our regulatory relief efforts, and today 
we will have an opportunity to send another to the President's desk. 
This resolution would overturn a costly and confusing Federal 
communications rule. The regulation in question makes the internet an 
uneven playing field, increases complexity, discourages competition, 
innovation, and infrastructure investment. President Obama's own legal 
mentor has expressed serious doubts about the rule's constitutionality 
under the First Amendment.
  Senator Flake has long been a leader on tackling this issue. Last 
year he voiced his worries about the regulations in a letter to the FCC 
and held a hearing regarding the legality of such regulations. Now he 
has sponsored a CRA resolution that will allow us to overturn the 
regulations and protect consumers. As Senator Flake has pointed out:

       The FCC's midnight regulation does nothing to protect 
     consumer privacy. It is unnecessary, confusing and adds yet 
     another innovation-stifling regulation to the internet.

  That is why he proposed this CRA resolution, which he has explained 
``empowers consumers to make informed choices on if and how their data 
can be shared.''
  I thank my friend from Arizona for taking on this important issue and 
putting forth legislation to address it. I look forward to the Senate 
passing it soon.

                          ____________________



