

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4-S5]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF OFFICE

  The VICE PRESIDENT. If the Senators to be sworn in will now present 
themselves at the desk in groups of four as their names are called in 
alphabetical order, the Chair will administer the oath of office.
  The clerk will read the names of the first group of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Bennet of Colorado, Mr. 
Blumenthal of Connecticut, Mr. Blunt of Missouri, and Mr. Boozman of 
Arkansas.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Gardner, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. McCaskill, 
Mr. Bond, and Mr. Cotton, respectively, advanced to the desk of the 
Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered to them by 
the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the 
Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Burr of North Carolina, 
Ms. Cortez Masto of Nevada, Mr. Crapo of Idaho, and Ms. Duckworth of 
Illinois.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Tillis, Mr. Reid, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
Risch, and Mr. Durbin, respectively, advanced to the desk of the Vice 
President; the oath prescribed by law was administered to them by the 
Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the 
Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Grassley of Iowa, Ms. 
Harris of California, Ms. Hassan of New Hampshire, and Mr. Hoeven of 
North Dakota.
  These Senators, escorted by Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Shaheen, 
Ms. Heitkamp, and Mr. Portman, respectively, advanced to the desk of 
the Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered to them 
by the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the 
Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Isakson of Georgia, Mr. 
Johnson of Wisconsin, Mr. Kennedy of Louisiana, and Mr. Lankford of 
Oklahoma.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Mattingly, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Kasten, 
Mr. Cassidy, and Mr. Inhofe, respectively, advanced to the desk of the 
Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered to them by 
the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the 
Official Oath Book.

[[Page S5]]

  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Leahy of Vermont, Mr. 
Lee of Utah, Mr. McCain of Arizona, and Mr. Moran of Kansas.
  These Senators, escorted by Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Flake, and 
Mr. Roberts, respectively, advanced to the desk of the Vice President; 
the oath prescribed by law was administered to them by the Vice 
President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the Official 
Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Ms. Murkowski of Alaska, 
Mrs. Murray of Washington, Mr. Paul of Kentucky, and Mr. Portman of 
Ohio.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Sullivan, Ms. Mikulski, Mr. 
McConnell, Mr. Brown, and Mr. DeWine, respectively, advanced to the 
desk of the Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered 
to them by the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the 
oath in the Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Rubio of Florida, Mr. 
Schatz of Hawaii, Mr. Schumer of New York, and Mr. Scott of South 
Carolina.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Nelson, Mr. Risch, Mr. Reid, Mrs. 
Gillibrand, Mr. DeMint, and Mr. Graham, respectively, advanced to the 
desk of the Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered 
to them by the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the 
oath in the Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the next group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Shelby of Alabama, Mr. 
Thune of South Dakota, Mr. Toomey of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Van Hollen 
of Maryland.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Sessions, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Casey, Ms. 
Mikulski, and Mr. Cardin, respectively, advanced to the desk of the 
Vice President; the oath prescribed by law was administered to them by 
the Vice President; and they severally subscribed to the oath in the 
Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will read the names of the final group 
of Senators.
  The legislative clerk called the names of Mr. Wyden of Oregon and Mr. 
Young of Indiana.
  These Senators, escorted by Mr. Merkley, Mr. Donnelly, and Mr. Lugar, 
respectively, advanced to the desk of the Vice President; the oath 
prescribed by law was administered to them by the Vice President; and 
they severally subscribed to the oath in the Official Oath Book.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
  (Applause, Senators rising.)

                          ____________________



