

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1961-H1962]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING VAIL TOWN MANAGER STAN ZEMLER

  (Mr. POLIS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise before 
this body to recognize Mr. Stan Zemler of Vail, Colorado, who is 
leaving local government service after a career of over 30 years in our 
great State of Colorado.
  Mr. Zemler served as the town of Vail's manager for the past 13 
years. Before that, as the city of Boulder's acting and deputy city 
manager, as the Boulder Urban Renewal Authority's executive director, 
and as the CEO of the Boulder Chamber of Commerce, where I met Stan 
almost 20 years ago. What a terrific career with positive impacts on 
both Boulder County and Eagle County, two very important counties in my 
district.
  Stan's leadership is about community partnering and consensus 
building. He really worked hard with various agencies, including 
Federal, State, local government, with the U.S. Forest Service, and the 
Department of Transportation to enhance Vail's local community, 
international guest services and amenities, and strengthened its 
economic position as a sustainable international resort.
  He has been active in working with others in the I-70 Coalition and 
Colorado Association of Ski Towns. He has won numerous awards for his 
service. He will be missed in Eagle County for his service. We remember 
him fondly in Boulder County.
  Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise to pay tribute to 
Stan Zemler on behalf of the residents of the Second Congressional 
District and myself personally. His distinguished service to the town 
of Vail and municipal government is an important legacy for many years 
to come.

[[Page H1962]]

  

                          ____________________



