

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2519]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING RETIRED MAJOR GENERAL GUS HARGETT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. DesJarlais) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DesJARLAIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor retired Major 
General Gus Hargett, a staunch advocate for the National Guard and one 
of the most widely respected Tennesseans I have ever had the pleasure 
of knowing.
  After more than 6 years as president of the National Guard 
Association for the United States, Gus will be stepping down next 
month. In all, he has more than 47 years of military service.
  He enlisted in the Tennessee Army National Guard in 1962 as an 
infantry soldier and served in a variety of staff and leadership 
positions in his home State, in the Pentagon, and overseas. During 
Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, he was chief of operations and 
exercises at the National Guard Bureau in Arlington, Virginia.
  Prior to his retirement from the military, Hargett served as the 
Tennessee Adjutant General. Since his appointment to association 
president in 2010, Gus has led the association's day-to-day operations 
in Washington, D.C., and has worked tirelessly on behalf of guardsmen 
across the globe by advocating for and spearheading groundbreaking 
legislative achievements.
  Among his most memorable and significant accomplishments was his work 
adding the National Guard Bureau Chief to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Throughout his career, he has committed himself to promoting the 
National Guard and improving the overall quality of life for our 
Nation's soldiers in harm's way.
  I want to take this moment to thank Major General Gus Hargett for his 
years of service to our country and for his tireless work on behalf of 
our Nation's guardsmen and their families.

                          ____________________



