

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1858-S1859]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT RESOLUTION

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on one final matter, over the past 
several weeks, the Senate has been working to bring much needed relief 
from the regulatory onslaught of the last 8 years. Using the 
Congressional Review Act, or CRA, we have already taken action to end 
regulations that threaten jobs, weaken our economy, and undermine 
States' authority. Today we will continue to move forward with our 
efforts to block more unnecessary regulations that hold our country 
back in a number of ways. The CRA resolution that we will consider 
today will end regulation that undercuts Alaska's ability to manage its 
fish and wildlife resources. As a coalition of hunters, fishing 
enthusiasts, and conservationists recently wrote me, ``Congress 
promised that the citizens of Alaska, working through their Department 
of Fish and Game would be able to manage their own fish and wildlife, 
as do the other 49 states.''
  Passing this CRA resolution will roll back the administration's 
overreach and restore the State-Federal balance that Congress 
originally intended. Our colleagues from Alaska, Senator Murkowski and 
Senator Sullivan, are the sponsors of this resolution we will consider 
today. They know the damage this regulation would do to their home 
State. They have been working to do something about it.
  They have also been quick to point out the concerning precedent this 
rule would mean for the rest of the States. I appreciate their 
leadership on this issue and look forward to joining them in 
overturning this harmful Obama administration regulation as soon as 
possible.

[[Page S1859]]

  Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



