

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H996-H997]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    NATIONAL SCHOOL COUNSELING WEEK

  (Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on the start 
of National School Counseling Week to recognize the tremendous impact 
that school counselors have on our students.
  School counselors are committed to helping students realize their 
full potential. They encourage students to explore their ability, 
strengths, interests, and talents as these traits relate to career 
awareness and development.
  National School Counseling Week is sponsored by the American School 
Counselor Association and is always observed during the first full week 
of

[[Page H997]]

February. This week's theme is ``School Counseling: Helping Students 
Realize Their Potential.''
  Mr. Speaker, what we know is that school counselors are integral to 
student success. Counselors not only help students reach their academic 
and career goals, but they focus on assisting with social and personal 
development, too. Many parents also benefit from the assistance of 
school counselors as they encounter the challenges of raising children 
in today's world.
  Our counselors play a vital role in the total education of children. 
I salute these professionals in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and 
throughout the United States for their dedication to preparing our 
students to achieve success and become productive members of society in 
this ever-changing world.
  Thank you to our school counselors for all you do to help educate 
students nationwide. Happy National School Counseling Week.

                          ____________________



