

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2096]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO JILL HRUBY

  Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is an honor to recognize Jill Hruby 
and her team for their commitment to the success of Sandia National 
Laboratories and their commendable service to the Nation.
  Since 2015, Ms. Hruby has been the president and director of Sandia 
National Laboratories and will be leaving the labs at the end of April.
  It has been a pleasure working with her over the last 2 years.
  With more than 12,000 employees, Sandia is our Nation's largest 
national laboratory with principal sites in Albuquerque, NM, and 
Livermore, CA.
  The lab employs some of the best and brightest minds in the country 
and is indispensable to our national security and to maintaining our 
Nation's science and engineering superiority.
  Ms. Hruby joined Sandia in 1983 to work on research in nanoscience, 
hydrogen storage, mechanical component design, thermal analysis, and 
microfluidics.
  She served for 27 years at Sandia's California location, managing 
projects responsible for weapon components, microtechnologies, and 
materials processing.
  In 2010, she came to New Mexico to serve as the vice president of the 
Energy, Nonproliferation, and High-Consequence Security Division and as 
the leader of Sandia's International, Homeland, and Nuclear Security 
Program Management Unit.
  In July 2015, Ms. Hruby became the first woman to direct a national 
security laboratory.
  Ms. Hruby has authored numerous publications, holds three patents in 
microfabrication, and won an R&D 100 Award in solid-state radiation 
detection. In 2016, the Society of Women Engineers presented Ms. Hruby 
with the Suzanne Jenniches Upward Mobility Award in celebration of her 
rise to a leadership role and her dedication to creating a nurturing 
environment for women in the workplace.
  She has said that she wants her work to matter to others and to have 
a purpose greater than herself.
  I commend Jill Hruby for her incredible record of service to our 
Nation addressing some of our most complex issues and challenges, and I 
wish her the best in all of her future endeavors.

                          ____________________



