

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2604]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              CONGRATULATING GAMECOCKS, NATIONAL CHAMPIONS

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Gamecocks 
women's basketball team made history, winning the NCAA National 
Championship for the first time in school history. Defeating 
Mississippi State 67-55, the Gamecocks dominated the all-SEC game, 
leading the Bulldogs in scoring and in rebounds.
  Early in the season, the Gamecocks set their sights on the 
championship, themeing the season as 100, with the ``1'' reflecting 
their commitment to one goal, one team, one dream, one family, and one 
focus. They never gave up their goals, and their dedication clearly 
paid off.
  I join all of Gamecock Nation in celebrating this remarkable victory.
  We are also grateful for the Gamecock men, who, in the Final Four, 
were ahead of number one Gonzaga in the last 3 minutes until the 
disturbing Zags pulled ahead.
  Special congratulations to superstar A'ja Wilson of Heathwood Hall 
and Hopkins, South Carolina, who had a great game, scoring a team high 
22 points, and who was also named most outstanding player in the Final 
Four.
  Congratulations as well to Head Coach Dawn Staley, President Harris 
Pastides, and USC First Lady Patricia Pastides.
  The Gamecocks women's basketball team joins Clemson's football team 
and Coastal Carolina's baseball team as the third college national 
championship from South Carolina in just 1 year. Go Gamecocks.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September the 11th in the global war on terrorism.
  Welcome, Timmerman School of Forest Acres, South Carolina, to the 
Capitol.

                          ____________________



