

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H401]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   REPEAL WILL AFFECT EVERY AMERICAN

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise out of a deep concern, not just for 
the 30 million Americans who will lose access to healthcoverage and the 
tens of millions of others who will see their costs rise if Republicans 
repeal the Affordable Care Act withouta replacement, but as well for 
every American because the repeal will affect every American, including 
every American who hashealth insurance through their employer.
  Let there be no mistake. Every American will be adversely affected by 
the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. The repeal anddelay plan ought 
to be called repeal and deny, deny health coverage to tens of millions, 
deny tax credits to small businesses tohelp them cover their employees, 
deny those with preexisting conditions protection from high premiums 
and coverage denials, anddeny parents from covering their children 
under age 26 through their own insurance plans. Every American will be 
adverselyaffected if we repeal the Affordable Care Act.
  I heard recently through social media from a woman in my district 
whose family was able to save more than $1,200 a monthbecause of the 
ACA marketplace. Another wrote to tell me that the ACA made it possible 
for her to sign up for coverage for thefirst time in years since she 
lost her job and her employer-based insurance. When she needed to be 
hospitalized this spring,having coverage saved her life.
  Repeal and deny would be a disaster for our people and our economy. I 
urge my Republican friends to instead work with theDemocrats to improve 
the Affordable Care Act.

                          ____________________



