

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3100]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
majority and minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on worldwide threats.


            COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 2017, at 10 
a.m., to conduct an executive session to vote on the following 
nominations: Ms. Sigal Mandelker, to be Under Secretary for Terrorism 
and Financial Crimes, U.S. Department of the Treasury; Ms. Mira 
Radielovic Ricardel, to be Under Secretary for Export Administration, 
U.S. Department of Commerce; Mr. Marshall Billingslea, to be Assistant 
Secretary for Terrorist Financing, U.S. Department of the Treasury; and 
Mr. Heath Tarbert, to be Assistant Secretary, U.S. Department of the 
Treasury.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 2017.


                    SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the Senate on Tuesday, May 
23, 2017 from 2:15 p.m.-4 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed member briefing.


                        SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEAPOWER

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m., in closed session, to receive a briefing on Navy 
readiness challenges, emerging threats, and the requirements 
underpinning the 355-Ship Force Structure Objective.


           SUBCOMMITTEE ON SPACE, SCIENCE AND COMPETITIVENESS

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 
2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold a Subcommittee Hearing on ``Reopening the 
American Frontier: Exploring How the Outer Space Treaty Will Impact 
American Commerce and Settlement in Space.''


              SUBCOMMITTEE ON CLEAN AIR AND NUCLEAR SAFETY

  The Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, May 23, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room 406 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled, 
``Making Implementation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards 
for Ground-Level Ozone Attainable: Legislative Hearing on S. 263 and S. 
452.''


            SUBCOMMITTEE ON BORDER SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION

  The Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Border Security and 
Immigration, is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Tuesday, May 23, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room SD-226 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Building 
America's Trust Through Border Security: Progress on the Southern 
Border.''

                          ____________________



