

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4760-S4761]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO JEFFREY HOLLAND

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, the Senate Budget Committee wishes to honor 
and recognize Jeffrey Holland on his retirement after 26 years of 
distinguished service to the Congress with the Congressional Budget 
Office. Jeff is highly regarded by Republicans and Democrats on both 
sides of the Capitol for his deep knowledge of the budget process and 
his commitment to the nonpartisan role that CBO plays in the budget 
process.
  Jeff arrived at CBO in 1991 soon after graduation from Carnegie 
Mellon University's Heinz School of Public Policy with a master's 
degree in public policy and management. He joined the projections unit 
in the budget analysis division, which is responsible for preparing 
projections of Federal spending, deficit, debt, and other data related 
to the Federal budget, as well as providing ongoing support to 
Congress.
  In 1999, Jeff became chief of the projections unit, and for the past 
18 years, he has successfully overseen the production of multiple 
reports on the Budget and Economic Outlook, annual analyses of the 
President's budget request, and also several reports on sequestration, 
the debt ceiling, national income, and product accounts, and the 
Troubled Asset Relief Program. Through all of these tasks, he has been 
the steady hand of the projections unit, generous with his time and 
knowledge, and highly responsive to questions and requests for data or 
information from the staff of the Budget Committee. His persistence, 
attention to detail, and reliably clear thinking have been vital to the 
smooth functioning of the budget analysis division. Senate staff and 
CBO colleagues have come to depend on him for his sage advice and deep 
understanding of the budget laws.
  In addition, Jeff has often lent his expertise to legislative 
branches of other countries as they seek to develop their own capacity 
for nonpartisan budget analysis. He is a sought-after explainer of the 
Federal budget process to students visiting our Nation's Capital. In 
short, Jeff's expertise, knowledge, and generosity of time and spirit 
will be sorely missed. We wish him well as he

[[Page S4761]]

moves on after years of outstanding service to the Congress. We are 
grateful for that service, and we wish him the best in the years to 
come.

                          ____________________



