

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2758-H2759]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 CELEBRATING THE SIKH HOLIDAY VAISAKHI

  (Mr. COSTA asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join the Sikh community in 
celebrating Vaisakhi. In the San Joaquin Valley, I have the honor and 
the privilege to represent many diverse ethnic communities that are 
part of the mosaic of America.
  The Sikh community is the American story, for they are the story of 
immigrants past and immigrants present that have come from all over the 
world to establish themselves as Americans and to build a better life 
for themselves and their family and add value to our country. So I am 
very proud, among so many ethnic groups, to be representing their 
interests here in our Nation's Capital.
  On April 14, Vaisakhi is recognized by the Sikhs around the world, 
including thousands in California's San Joaquin Valley. On Vaisakhi, 
the Sikh

[[Page H2759]]

community celebrates a new year and new beginnings. We honored the 
progress of the Sikh community that first came to California at the 
turn of the 20th century for their shared values, their family, their 
history, and the culture of Sikhism.
  This holiday also recognizes the best of what all cultures strive 
for, and it is time that we celebrate the common bonds that we share as 
Americans. Notwithstanding our differences, we know at the end of the 
day that bonds that we as Americans share are far stronger than 
whatever differences we may have.
  So I ask my colleagues to please join in celebrating this special 
tradition in the Sikh community.

                          ____________________



