

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2612]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                          TRIBUTE TO NEIL SMIT

 Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, today I wish to pay tribute to a 
great Pennsylvanian and a great American: Neil Smit. Neil has made 
extraordinary contributions to our country through his service as a 
Navy SEAL, his leadership and innovation in the business world, and his 
dedication to community service.
  Neil has served as a leader in the business community for decades 
with Comcast, Charter Communications, AOL, Pillsbury, and Nabisco. His 
notable career began serving his country as a member of the elite Navy 
SEAL Team Six. He retired from Active Duty as a lieutenant commander. 
He has never lost his commitment to his country and his comrades. In 
the private sector, he has worked on behalf of veterans by championing 
Comcast's pledge to hire veterans and to help Active-Duty 
servicemembers transition from the military to the civilian workforce.
  In all of his roles, Neil has always exemplified the best traits of a 
leader. During his time as CEO of Comcast Cable, Neil led his team to 
innovate and develop game-changing products and businesses that 
benefited consumers.
  His devotion to his community is evident in his role with the 
executive committee of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia's board 
of trustees. Neil is also a member of the board of visitors for 
Nicholas School of the Environment at his alma mater, Duke University. 
He also serves as chairman of the executive committee and is a member 
of the board of directors of C-SPAN.
  Neil's life of service and leadership is an inspiration to many, and 
we thank him for his service to our great country.

                          ____________________



