

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4755]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    CONFIRMATION OF CHRISTOPHER WRAY

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I wish to voice my support for 
Christopher Wray's confirmation to be the next Director of the FBI. 
After meeting with Mr. Wray and reviewing his record, I believe he 
possesses the independence and integrity necessary to lead the Bureau 
through this tumultuous period.
  This vacancy arose because President Trump abruptly fired then-
Director James Comey. The circumstances surrounding Mr. Comey's firing 
are alarming and suspicious. Mr. Comey testified under oath that the 
President not only demanded his personal loyalty on numerous occasions 
but also intimated that Mr. Comey should stop investigating then-
National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and Russian interference in the 
2016 elections.
  Mr. Wray will face numerous challenges as the new Director of the 
FBI. He will have to deal with a President who has shown a complete 
disregard for traditional protocols designed to ensure the agency's 
independence. During our meeting, Mr. Wray assured me that he would 
remain independent from the President and would reject any attempts by 
President Trump to inappropriately intervene in the work of the FBI.
  During our meeting, I also impressed upon Mr. Wray the importance of 
consolidating the FBI's staff in one building. The FBI has long 
outgrown its current space and the building is deteriorating, which 
compromises the agency's mission. I look forward to working with him to 
give FBI personnel the facilities they deserve.
  As Mr. Wray takes his position, he will need to work immediately to 
affirm the FBI's independence and restore the confidence of an agency 
shaken by the President's inappropriate conduct with respect to Mr. 
Comey and other matters. This Congress must conduct vigorous oversight 
to ensure that Mr. Wray maintains the high standard of integrity that 
he has promised and to respond to any attempts by the President or his 
political advisors to exert undue influence at the FBI. I pledge to do 
everything I can to support his important mission and the vital work of 
the FBI.

                          ____________________



