

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2960]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         AUTISM AWARENESS MONTH

  (Ms. TENNEY asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Autism 
Awareness Month and the more than 3.5 million Americans currently 
living with an autism spectrum disorder.
  Today it is estimated that 1 in 68 people will be born with autism. 
There has been a significant increase in the number of people born with 
autism in just a decade.
  With an increase in diagnoses of Americans with autism spectrum, it 
is important that we expand research and provide adequate resources for 
people on the spectrum. By increasing awareness, we seek to support the 
numerous families along with millions of individuals managing an autism 
disorder.
  The earlier autism can be diagnosed and treated, the better chance 
that person has to pursue an independent and productive life. Thus, it 
is crucial that our early childcare programs, and especially our 
schools, have the knowledge, resources, and ability to provide 
assistance to those with autism.
  I also wish to acknowledge my friend and former constituent, Vincent 
McLaughlin, who serves as an inspiration for autism awareness. Vincent, 
like many Americans with autism, is an active and devoted member of his 
local community and proudly serves as a member of his local volunteer 
fire department. For years, Vincent has sought to increase awareness 
for autism and to serve as an example of just how beneficial early 
treatment can be.
  Autism should not be a barrier to preventing Americans from achieving 
success and pursuing happiness. It is to that goal that I stand here 
today to recognize all Americans with an autism disorder, and I am 
proud to acknowledge April as Autism Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



