

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3283]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           100TH BIRTHDAY OF THE 34TH AND 37TH BOMB SQUADRONS

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today I would like to recognize the 100th 
birthday of the Air Force's 34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons.
  Two of the oldest active squadrons in the U.S. Air Force, the 34th 
and 37th Bomb Squadrons first served our Nation during ``the war to end 
all wars.'' Too soon after the conclusion of their service in World War 
I, however, our country needed them once again. During World War II, 
when our allies in Europe and in the Pacific called for help, the brave 
airmen of these units answered the call. They served with distinction 
during the historic Doolittle Raid, a daring mission that tested the 
limits of the B-25 bombers that had been selected to strike a blow to 
the heart of the Japanese empire. While their bombers delivered 
payloads, their courage delivered hope to a world that longed for 
peace.
  The 34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons went on to fly numerous interdiction 
and support missions during the Korean war, deployed during Operation 
Desert Storm, and fought in Kosovo and Serbia. When terrorists attacked 
our homeland in 2001, both squadrons took action in Operations Enduring 
Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. In 2011, the 34th and 37th joined forces to 
launch the first ever B-1 combat mission launched from the continental 
United States, flying from Ellsworth Air Force base in South Dakota to 
hit enemy targets in Libya during Operation Odyssey Dawn. During their 
100 years of service, the airmen of the 34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons 
have assisted allies around the globe and represented the very best of 
who we are as a nation. I have full faith they will continue their 
distinguished service in defense of our country, our allies, and our 
freedoms.
  So many times throughout the history of our republic, we have called 
upon ordinary men and women to become extraordinary heroes. Today we 
honor the legacy of the heroes of the 34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons, and 
I thank you for joining me in wishing them the best as they celebrate a 
century of service.

                          ____________________



