

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3491-S3503]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 235. Mr. COTTON submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by

[[Page S3492]]

him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

     SEC. 13. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO VIOLATIONS 
                   OF THE INF TREATY BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--The President shall impose 
     the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any 
     Russian person that the President determines, on or after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act--
       (1) knowingly directs, implements, provides support for, or 
     otherwise participates in actions or projects of the 
     Government of the Russian Federation that constitute a 
     material breach of the INF Treaty;
       (2) is a successor entity to a person referred to in 
     paragraph (1);
       (3) owns or controls or is owned or controlled by a person 
     referred to in paragraph (1);
       (4) forms an entity with the purpose of evading sanctions 
     that would otherwise be imposed pursuant to paragraph (3);
       (5) is acting for or on behalf of a person referred to in 
     paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4); or
       (6) knowingly provides or attempts to provide financial, 
     material, technological, or other support for, or goods or 
     services in support of, a person referred to in paragraph 
     (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
     accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
     property and interests in property of any person subject to 
     subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
     shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
     subsection (a) that is an alien.
       (c) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the 
     penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 
     of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
     act described in subsection (a) of that section.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
     between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
     Socialist Republics on the Elimination of their Intermediate-
     Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington 
     December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
       (2) Russian person.--The term ``Russian person'' means--
       (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of the 
     Russian Federation; or
       (B) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian 
     Federation or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the 
     Government of the Russian Federation.

     SEC. 14. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES 
                   AND AGENTS OF KASPERSKY LAB.

       (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--
       (1) Founders, directors, and senior corporate leadership.--
     The President shall impose the sanctions described in 
     subsection (b) with respect to any citizen or national of the 
     Russian Federation that the President determines, on or after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, is a founder, 
     director, or member of the senior corporate leadership of 
     Kaspersky Lab.
       (2) Employees and agents.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in subsection (b)(2) with respect to any 
     citizen or national of the Russian Federation that the 
     President determines, on or after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, is an employee or agent of Kaspersky Lab.
       (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
     accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
     property and interests in property of any individual subject 
     to subsection (a) if such property and interests in property 
     are in the United States, come within the United States, or 
     are or come within the possession or control of a United 
     States person.
       (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
     shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall exclude from the United States, any individual subject 
     to subsection (a).
       (c) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the 
     penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 
     of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
     act described in subsection (a) of that section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 236. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 46, between lines 6 and 7, insert the following:

     SEC. 11. REPORT ON IRANIAN ACTIVITIES IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for a 
     period not to exceed 5 years, the President shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report on Iranian 
     activities in Iraq and Syria.
       (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include--
       (1) a description of Iran's support for--
       (A) Iraqi militias or political parties, including weapons, 
     financing, and other forms of material support; and
       (B) the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria; and
       (2) a list of referrals to the relevant United Nations 
     Security Council sanctions committees by the United States 
     Permanent Representative to the United Nations.
       (c) Form.--The President may submit the report required by 
     subsection (a) in classified form if the President determines 
     that it is necessary for the national security interests of 
     the United States to do so.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee on 
     Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, 
     the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 237. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 43, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:

     SEC. 9. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN 
                   FOREIGN PERSONS THREATENING PEACE OR STABILITY 
                   IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.

       (a) Sanctions Required.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in subsection (b)(1) with respect to any 
     foreign person that--
       (1) is responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged 
     in, directly or indirectly--
       (A) actions that threaten the peace, security, or stability 
     of Iraq or Syria;
       (B) actions or policies that undermine efforts to promote 
     economic reconstruction and political reform in Iraq; or
       (C) the obstruction of the delivery or distribution of, or 
     access to, humanitarian assistance to the people of Iraq or 
     Syria;
       (2) has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided 
     financial, material, or technological support for, or goods 
     or services to or in support of, any activity described in 
     subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1); or
       (3) is owned or controlled by, or has acted or purported to 
     act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a foreign 
     person that has carried out any activity described in 
     subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) or paragraph 
     (2).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--
       (1) In general.--The sanctions described in this subsection 
     are the following:
       (A) Asset blocking.--The President shall block, in 
     accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
     property and interests in property of a person subject to 
     subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       (B) Aliens ineligible for visas, admission, or parole.--
       (i) Exclusion from the united states.--The Secretary of 
     State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security shall exclude from the United States, any person 
     subject to subsection (a) that is an alien.
       (ii) Current visas revoked.--

       (I) In general.--The issuing consular officer, the 
     Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or 
     a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall revoke any visa 
     or other entry documentation issued to an alien subject to 
     subsection (a), regardless of when issued.
       (II) Effect of revocation.--A revocation under subclause 
     (I) shall take effect immediately and shall automatically 
     cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in 
     the alien's possession.

       (2) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
     requirements of

[[Page S3493]]

     section 202 of the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for purposes of the 
     imposition of sanctions under this section.
       (3) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     paragraph (1)(A) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out that paragraph shall be subject to the penalties 
     set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
     to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
     described in subsection (a) of that section.
       (4) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
     agreement.--Sanctions under paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply 
     to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is 
     necessary to permit the United States to comply with the 
     Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
     signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
     November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
     States, or other applicable international obligations.
       (c) Waiver.--
       (1) In general.--The President may, on a case-by-case basis 
     and for periods not to exceed 180 days, waive the application 
     of sanctions under this section with respect to a foreign 
     person, and may renew the waiver for additional periods of 
     not more than 180 days, if the President determines and 
     reports to the appropriate congressional committees at least 
     15 days before the waiver or renewal of the waiver is to take 
     effect that the waiver is vital to the national security 
     interests of the United States.
       (2) Form of report.--A report submitted under paragraph (1) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (3) Sunset.--The provisions of this subsection and any 
     waivers issued pursuant to this subsection shall terminate on 
     the date that is 3 years after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.
       (d) Implementation Authority.--The President may exercise 
     all authorities provided to the President under sections 203 
     and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) for purposes of carrying out this 
     section.
       (e) Regulatory Authority.--
       (1) In general.--The President shall, not later than 90 
     days after the date of the enactment of this Act, promulgate 
     regulations as necessary for the implementation of this 
     section.
       (2) Notification to congress.--Not less than 10 days before 
     the promulgation of regulations under paragraph (1), the 
     President shall notify and provide to the appropriate 
     congressional committees the proposed regulations and the 
     provisions of this Act and the amendments made by this Act 
     that the regulations are implementing.
       (f) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Admitted; alien.--The terms ``admitted'' and ``alien'' 
     have the meanings given those terms in section 101(a) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee 
     on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
       (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means--
       (A) an individual who is not a United States person;
       (B) a corporation, partnership, or other nongovernmental 
     entity that is not a United States person; or
       (C) any representative, agent or instrumentality of, or an 
     individual working on behalf of a foreign government.
       (4) Government of iraq.--The term ``Government of Iraq'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 576.310 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar 
     regulation or ruling).
       (5) Government of syria.--The term ``Government of Syria'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 542.305 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar 
     regulation or ruling).
       (6) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
     conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
     actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
     circumstance, or the result.
       (7) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
     entity.
       (8) Property; property interest.--The terms ``property'' 
     and ``property interest'' have the meanings given those terms 
     in section 576.312 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
     (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
       (9) United states person.--The term ``United States 
     person'' has the meaning given that term in section 576.319 
     of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
     corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
       (g) Sunset.--This section shall cease to be effective 
     beginning on January 1, 2022.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 238. Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. 
Markey, Mr. Graham, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Young, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Moran, and Mr. Heller) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 722, to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

  TITLE II--TREATMENT OF BOYCOTT, DIVESTMENT, OR SANCTIONS ACTIVITIES 
                            TARGETING ISRAEL

     SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Combating BDS Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 202. NONPREEMPTION OF MEASURES BY STATE AND LOCAL 
                   GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM ENTITIES THAT ENGAGE 
                   IN CERTAIN BOYCOTT, DIVESTMENT, OR SANCTIONS 
                   ACTIVITIES TARGETING ISRAEL.

       (a) State and Local Measures.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, a State or local government may adopt and 
     enforce measures that meet the requirements of subsection (b) 
     to divest the assets of the State or local government from, 
     prohibit investment of the assets of the State or local 
     government in, or restrict contracting by the State or local 
     government for goods and services with--
       (1) an entity that the State or local government 
     determines, using credible information available to the 
     public, knowingly engages in a commerce-related or 
     investment-related boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity 
     targeting Israel;
       (2) a successor entity or subunit of an entity described in 
     paragraph (1); or
       (3) an entity that owns or controls, is owned or controlled 
     by, or is under common ownership or control with, an entity 
     described in paragraph (1).
       (b) Requirements.--A State or local government that seeks 
     to adopt or enforce a measure under subsection (a) shall meet 
     the following requirements:
       (1) Notice.--The State or local government shall provide 
     written notice to each entity to which a measure under 
     subsection (a) is to be applied.
       (2) Timing.--The measure shall apply to an entity not 
     earlier than the date that is 90 days after the date on which 
     written notice is provided to the entity under paragraph (1).
       (3) Opportunity for comment.--The State or local government 
     shall provide an opportunity to comment in writing to each 
     entity to which a measure is to be applied. If the entity 
     demonstrates to the State or local government that the entity 
     has not engaged in a commerce-related or investment-related 
     boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity targeting Israel, 
     the measure shall not apply to the entity.
       (4) Sense of congress on avoiding erroneous targeting.--It 
     is the sense of Congress that a State or local government 
     should not adopt a measure under subsection (a) with respect 
     to an entity unless the State or local government has made 
     every effort to avoid erroneously targeting the entity and 
     has verified that the entity engages in a commerce-related or 
     investment-related boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity 
     targeting Israel.
       (c) Notice to Department of Justice.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
     later than 30 days after adopting a measure described in 
     subsection (a), the State or local government that adopted 
     the measure shall submit written notice to the Attorney 
     General describing the measure.
       (2) Existing measures.--With respect to measures described 
     in subsection (a) adopted before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the State or local government that adopted the 
     measure shall submit written notice to the Attorney General 
     describing the measure not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act.
       (d) Nonpreemption.--A measure of a State or local 
     government that is consistent with subsection (a) is not 
     preempted by any Federal law.
       (e) Effective Date.--This section applies to any measure 
     adopted by a State or local government before, on, or after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (f) Prior Enacted Measures.--
       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     this section or any other provision of law, and except as 
     provided in paragraph (2), a State or local government may 
     enforce a measure described in subsection (a) adopted by the 
     State or local government before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act without regard to the requirements of subsection 
     (b).
       (2) Application of notice and opportunity for comment.--A 
     measure described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the 
     requirements of subsection (b) on and after the date that is 
     2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (g) Rules of Construction.--
       (1) Authority of states.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to abridge the authority of a State to issue and 
     enforce rules governing the safety, soundness, and solvency 
     of a financial institution subject to its jurisdiction or the 
     business of insurance pursuant to the Act of March 9, 1945 
     (59 Stat. 33, chapter 20; 15 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) (commonly 
     known as the ``McCarran-Ferguson Act'').

[[Page S3494]]

       (2) Policy of the united states.--Nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to alter the established policy of the 
     United States concerning final status issues associated with 
     the Arab-Israeli conflict, including border delineation, that 
     can only be resolved through direct negotiations between the 
     parties.
       (3) Scope of nonpreemption.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed as establishing a basis for preempting or 
     implying preemption of State measures relating to boycott, 
     divestment, or sanctions activity targeting Israel that are 
     outside the scope of subsection (a).
       (h) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Assets.--
       (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
     the term ``assets'' means any pension, retirement, annuity, 
     or endowment fund, or similar instrument, that is controlled 
     by a State or local government.
       (B) Exception.--The term ``assets'' does not include 
     employee benefit plans covered by title I of the Employee 
     Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001 et 
     seq.).
       (2) Boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity targeting 
     israel.--The term ``boycott, divestment, or sanctions 
     activity targeting Israel'' means any activity that is 
     intended to penalize, inflict economic harm on, or otherwise 
     limit commercial relations with Israel or persons doing 
     business in Israel or in Israeli-controlled territories for 
     purposes of coercing political action by, or imposing policy 
     positions on, the Government of Israel.
       (3) Entity.--The term ``entity'' includes--
       (A) any corporation, company, business association, 
     partnership, or trust; and
       (B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a 
     government, including a multilateral development institution 
     (as defined in section 1701(c)(3) of the International 
     Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(3))).
       (4) Investment.--The term ``investment'' includes--
       (A) a commitment or contribution of funds or property;
       (B) a loan or other extension of credit; and
       (C) the entry into or renewal of a contract for goods or 
     services.
       (5) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
     States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
     Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, 
     American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and 
     any other territory or possession of the United States.
       (6) State or local government.--The term ``State or local 
     government'' includes--
       (A) any State and any agency or instrumentality thereof;
       (B) any local government within a State and any agency or 
     instrumentality thereof; and
       (C) any other governmental instrumentality of a State or 
     locality.

     SEC. 203. SAFE HARBOR FOR CHANGES OF INVESTMENT POLICIES BY 
                   ASSET MANAGERS.

       Section 13(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 
     U.S.C. 80a-13(c)(1)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
     a semicolon;
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; or''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) engage in any boycott, divestment, or sanctions 
     activity targeting Israel described in section 202 of the 
     Combating BDS Act of 2017.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 239. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 43, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:

     SEC. 9. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OF COMMERCIAL 
                   AIRCRAFT AND RELATED SERVICES FOR ILLICIT 
                   MILITARY OR OTHER ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Iran is designated as the world's foremost state 
     sponsor of terrorism and a direct threat to the national 
     security of the United States and United States allies.
       (2) Iran, through its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (in 
     this section referred to as the ``IRGC''), provides material 
     and financial support to foreign terrorist organizations, 
     including Hamas, Hezbollah, and Kata'ib Hezbollah, as well as 
     to the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, which is 
     responsible for more than 400,000 civilian deaths.
       (3) Iran has systematically employed its national air 
     carrier, Iran Air, as well as numerous private and publicly 
     owned Iranian and Syrian air carriers, including Mahan Air, 
     to ferry weapons, troops, and military equipment on behalf of 
     the IRGC and Iran's Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces 
     Logistics (in this section referred to as ``MODAFL'') to 
     foreign terrorist organizations and rogue regimes around the 
     world.
       (4) On June 23, 2011, the United States Department of the 
     Treasury designated Iran Air for the imposition of sanctions 
     pursuant to Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
     relating to blocking property of weapons of mass destruction 
     delivery system proliferators and their supporters) for 
     providing material support and services to the IRGC, 
     including shipping military-related equipment on behalf of 
     the IRGC since 2006 and transporting rockets or missiles to 
     Syria.
       (5) On January 16, 2016, Iran Air was removed from the list 
     of specially designated nationals and blocked persons by the 
     Department of the Treasury even though Iran Air had not 
     ceased its illicit and sanctionable activity.
       (6) Iran Air remains owned and operated by the Government 
     of Iran and has, since January 16, 2016, flown numerous 
     unscheduled flights on well-known weapons supply routes 
     between Iran and Syria.
       (7) In correspondence with Members of Congress, the 
     Secretary of the Treasury has refused to confirm that Iran 
     Air has ceased its illicit activity. In a November 23, 2016, 
     letter to Representative Peter Roskam, Thomas Patrick 
     Maloney, Senior Advisor in the Office of Legislative Affairs 
     of the Department of the Treasury wrote: ``The United States 
     retains the ability to designate any individual or entity 
     that engages in sanctionable activities under our authorities 
     targeting conduct outside the scope of the JCPOA, including 
     Iran's support for terrorism, human rights abuses, ballistic 
     missile program, and other destabilizing activities in the 
     region.''.
       (8) Evidence supports that, despite being removed from the 
     list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons on 
     January 16, 2016, Iran Air has continued its illicit and 
     sanctionable activity in support of the IRGC, MODAFL, 
     Hezbollah, and the Bashar al-Assad regime since January 16, 
     2016.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Secretary of State, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on use by the Government of Iran of 
     commercial aircraft and related services for illicit military 
     or other activities during--
       (1) in the case of the first report, the 5-year period 
     preceding submission of the report; and
       (2) in the case of any subsequent report, the 180-day 
     period preceding submission of the report.
       (c) Elements of Report.--The report required under 
     subsection (b) shall include a description of the extent to 
     which--
       (1) the Government of Iran has used commercial aircraft, 
     including aircraft of Iran Air, or related services to 
     transport illicit cargo to or from Iran, including military 
     goods, weapons, military personnel, military-related 
     electronic parts and mechanical equipment, or rocket or 
     missile components;
       (2) the commercial aviation sector of Iran, including Iran 
     Air, has provided financial, material, or technological 
     support to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Iran's 
     Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics, the regime of 
     Bashar al-Assad in Syria, Hezbollah, Hamas, Kata'ib 
     Hezbollah, any other organization designated as a foreign 
     terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), or any person on the 
     list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons 
     maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the 
     Department of the Treasury; and
       (3) foreign governments and persons have facilitated the 
     activities described in paragraph (1), including allowing the 
     use of airports, services, or other resources.
       (d) Effect of Determination.--If, in a report submitted 
     under this section, the President determines that Iran Air or 
     any other Iranian commercial air carrier has used commercial 
     aircraft for illicit military purposes on or after January 
     16, 2016, the President shall, not later than 90 days after 
     making that determination, include the air carrier on the 
     list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons 
     maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the 
     Department of the Treasury.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
     of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
       (f) Sunset.--This section shall cease to be effective on 
     the date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
     President certifies to Congress that the Government of Iran 
     has ceased providing support for acts of international 
     terrorism.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 240. Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Reed, Mr. Tillis, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Casey, 
Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Coons, Mr. Portman, Mr. Corker, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
Cochran, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Young, Mr. Franken, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. Shaheen, 
Mr. Barrasso, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Warner, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Kaine, 
Mr. Murphy, Mr. Markey, Ms. Warren, Mr. Carper, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
Sullivan, and Mr. Alexander) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed

[[Page S3495]]

by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

     SEC. 13. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF 
                   ARTICLE 5 OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.

       (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
       (1) The principle of collective defense of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is immortalized in 
     Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty in which members 
     pledge that ``an armed attack against one or more of them in 
     Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against 
     them all''.
       (2) For almost 7 decades, the principle of collective 
     defense has effectively served as a strategic deterrent for 
     the member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     and provided stability throughout the world, strengthening 
     the security of the United States and all 28 other member 
     nations.
       (3) Following the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in 
     New York, Washington, and Pennsylvania, the Alliance agreed 
     to invoke Article 5 for the first time, affirming its 
     commitment to collective defense.
       (4) Countries that are members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization have made historic contributions and sacrifices 
     while combating terrorism in Afghanistan through the 
     International Security Assistance Force and the Resolute 
     Support Mission.
       (5) The recent attacks in the United Kingdom underscore the 
     importance of an international alliance to combat hostile 
     nation states and terrorist groups.
       (6) At the 2014 NATO summit in Wales, the member countries 
     of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization decided that all 
     countries that are members of NATO would spend an amount 
     equal to 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense 
     by 2024.
       (7) Collective defense unites the 29 members of the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization, each committing to protecting 
     and supporting one another from external adversaries, which 
     bolsters the North Atlantic Alliance.
       (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate--
       (1) to express the vital importance of Article 5 of the 
     North Atlantic Treaty, the charter of the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization, as it continues to serve as a critical 
     deterrent to potential hostile nations and terrorist 
     organizations;
       (2) to remember the first and only invocation of Article 5 
     by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in support of the 
     United States after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 
     2001;
       (3) to affirm that the United States remains fully 
     committed to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and will 
     honor its obligations enshrined in Article 5; and
       (4) to condemn any threat to the sovereignty, territorial 
     integrity, freedom, or democracy of any country that is a 
     member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 241. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Portman, and Mr. Rubio) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 
722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's 
ballistic missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, 
and violations of human rights, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

                   TITLE II--ISRAEL ANTI-BOYCOTT ACT

     SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Israel Anti-Boycott Act''.

     SEC. 202. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) The United Nations Human Rights Council (in this 
     section referred to as the ``UNHRC'') has long targeted 
     Israel with systematic, politically motivated, assaults on 
     its legitimacy designed to stigmatize and isolate Israel 
     internationally.
       (2) The UNHRC maintains a permanent agenda item known as 
     ``Item 7'' to ensure that Israel will be criticized at every 
     gathering of the UNHRC.
       (3) At its 31st session on March 24, 2016, the UNHRC 
     targeted Israel with a commercial boycott, calling for the 
     establishment of a database, such as a ``blacklist'', of 
     companies that operate, or have business relations with 
     entities that operate, beyond Israel's 1949 Armistice lines, 
     including East Jerusalem.
       (4) At its 32nd session in March 2017, the UNHRC is 
     considering a resolution pursuant to agenda item 7 to 
     withhold assistance from and prevent trade with ``territories 
     occupied since 1967'', including East Jerusalem, the West 
     Bank, and the Golan Heights, stating that businesses that 
     engage in economic activity in those areas could face civil 
     or criminal legal action.
       (5) For a half century, Congress has combated anti-Israel 
     boycotts and other discriminatory activity under the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979 (as continued in effect pursuant 
     to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1701 et seq.)), under part VI of title X of the Tax Reform 
     Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-455; 90 Stat. 1649) (commonly 
     referred to as the ``Ribicoff Amendment''), in free trade 
     agreements with Bahrain and Oman, and in Saudi Arabia's 
     accession negotiations to the World Trade Organization.
       (6) The recent action of the UNHRC is reminiscent of the 
     Arab League Boycott, which also called for the establishment 
     of a ``blacklist'' and promoted a primary, as well as a 
     secondary and tertiary, boycott against Israel, targeting 
     United States and other companies that trade or invest with 
     or in Israel, designed to harm Israel, any business operating 
     in, or doing business with, Israel, or companies that do 
     business with companies operating in Israel.
       (7) Congress recently passed anti-boycott, divestment, and 
     sanctions measures in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade 
     Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4201 et 
     seq.) and section 909 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade 
     Enforcement Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4452), which establish, 
     among other things--
       (A) the opposition of the United States to actions to 
     boycott, divest from, or sanction Israel;
       (B) requirements that the United States utilize trade 
     negotiations to combat state-led or international 
     governmental organization-led actions to boycott, divest 
     from, or sanction Israel; and
       (C) reporting requirements regarding the actions of foreign 
     countries or international organizations that establish 
     barriers to trade or investment for United States companies 
     in or with Israel.

     SEC. 203. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

       Congress--
       (1) opposes the United Nations Human Rights Council 
     resolution of March 24, 2016, which urges countries to 
     pressure their own companies to divest from, or break 
     contracts with, Israel, and calls for the creation of a 
     ``blacklist'' of companies that either operate, or have 
     business relations with entities that operate, beyond 
     Israel's 1949 Armistice lines, including East Jerusalem;
       (2) views such policies as actions to boycott, divest from, 
     or sanction Israel; and
       (3) in order to counter the effects of actions to boycott, 
     divest from, or sanction Israel, encourages full 
     implementation of the United States-Israel Strategic 
     Partnership Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-296; 128 Stat. 4075) 
     through enhanced, governmentwide, coordinated United States-
     Israel scientific and technological cooperation in civilian 
     areas such as with respect to energy, water, agriculture, 
     alternative fuel technology, civilian space technology, and 
     security.

     SEC. 204. ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO FOREIGN 
                   BOYCOTTS UNDER EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF 
                   1979.

       (a) Declaration of Policy.--Section 3(5) of the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4602(5)) (as continued 
     in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) is amended--
       (1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
       ``(A) to oppose--
       ``(i) restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or 
     imposed by foreign countries, or requests to impose 
     restrictive trade practices or boycotts by foreign countries, 
     against other countries friendly to the United States or 
     against any United States person; and
       ``(ii) restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or 
     imposed by any international governmental organization 
     against Israel or requests to impose restrictive trade 
     practices or boycotts by any international governmental 
     organization against Israel;''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``which have the 
     effect'' and all the follows and inserting the following: 
     ``which have the effect of furthering or supporting--
       ``(i) restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or 
     imposed by any foreign country, or requests to impose 
     restrictive trade practices or boycotts by any foreign 
     country, against a country friendly to the United States or 
     against any United States person; and
       ``(ii) restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or 
     imposed by any international governmental organization 
     against Israel or requests to impose restrictive trade 
     practices or boycotts by any international governmental 
     organization against Israel; and''.
       (b) Foreign Boycotts.--Section 8 of the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4607) (as continued in 
     effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
       (i) by inserting ``, or request to impose any boycott by a 
     foreign country,'' after ``a foreign country'';
       (ii) by inserting ``, or support any boycott fostered or 
     imposed by any international governmental organization 
     against Israel or request to impose any boycott by any 
     international governmental organization against Israel'' 
     after ``pursuant to United States law or regulation'';
       (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or international 
     governmental organization (as the case may be)'' after ``of 
     the boycotting country''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (D)--
       (i) by inserting ``, or requesting the furnishing of 
     information,'' after ``Furnishing information''; and

[[Page S3496]]

       (ii) by inserting ``or with the international governmental 
     organization (as the case may be)'' after ``in the boycotting 
     country''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by inserting ``, or requests to impose restrictive 
     trade practices or boycotts by foreign countries,'' after 
     ``foreign countries''; and
       (B) by inserting ``or restrictive trade practices or 
     boycotts fostered or imposed by any international 
     governmental organization against Israel or requests to 
     impose restrictive trade practices or boycotts by any 
     international governmental organization against Israel'' 
     before the period at the end.
       (c) Violations of Section 8(a).--Section 11 of the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4610) (as continued in 
     effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or (j)'' after 
     ``subsection (b)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(j) Violations of Section 8(a).--Whoever knowingly 
     violates or conspires to or attempts to violate any provision 
     of section 8(a) or any regulation, order, or license issued 
     thereunder shall be fined in accordance with section 206 of 
     the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705).''.
       (d) Definition of International Governmental 
     Organization.--Section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 
     1979 (50 U.S.C. 4618) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
     (8) and (9), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
       ``(7) the term `international governmental organization' 
     includes the United Nations and the European Union;''.
       (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
     apply with respect to actions described in section 8(a) of 
     the Export Administration Act of 1979 (as continued in effect 
     pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) taken or knowingly agreed to be 
     taken on or after such date of enactment.
       (f) Implementation.--The President shall implement the 
     amendments made by this section by exercising the authorities 
     of the President under the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

     SEC. 205. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES RELATING TO BOYCOTT OF 
                   ISRAEL UNDER EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT OF 1945.

       Section 2(b)(1)(B) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 
     (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(1)(B)) is amended in the sixth sentence by 
     inserting after ``child labor),'' the following: ``or 
     opposing policies and actions that are politically motivated 
     and are intended to penalize or otherwise limit commercial 
     relations specifically with citizens or residents of Israel, 
     entities organized under the laws of Israel, or the 
     Government of Israel,''.

     SEC. 206. DEFINITIONS.

       (a) In General.--In this title:
       (1) Actions to boycott, divest from, or sanction israel.--
     The term ``actions to boycott, divest from, or sanction 
     Israel'' has the meaning given that term in section 
     102(b)(20)(B) of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade 
     Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 
     4201(b)(20)(B)).
       (2) International governmental organization.--The term 
     ``international governmental organization'' includes the 
     United Nations and the European Union.
       (3) Politically motivated.--The term ``politically 
     motivated'' means actions to impede or constrain commerce 
     with Israel that are intended to coerce political action from 
     or impose policy positions on Israel.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to alter the established policy of the United 
     States or to establish new United States policy concerning 
     final status issues associated with the Arab-Israeli 
     conflict, including border delineation, that can only be 
     resolved through direct negotiations between the parties.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 242. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of the bill, add the following:

     SEC. 13. FOREIGN AGENTS REGISTRATION MODERNIZATION AND 
                   ENFORCEMENT.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Foreign Agents Registration Modernization and Enforcement 
     Act''.
       (b) Civil Investigative Demand Authority.--The Foreign 
     Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.) is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 
     as sections 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after section 7 (22 U.S.C. 617) the 
     following:


                 ``CIVIL INVESTIGATIVE DEMAND AUTHORITY

       ``Sec. 8. (a) Whenever the Attorney General has reason to 
     believe that any person or enterprise may be in possession, 
     custody, or control of any documentary material relevant to 
     an investigation under this Act, the Attorney General, before 
     initiating a civil or criminal proceeding with respect to the 
     production of such material, may serve a written demand upon 
     such person to produce such material for examination.
       ``(b) Each such demand under this section shall--
       ``(1) state the nature of the conduct constituting the 
     alleged violation which is under investigation and the 
     provision of law applicable to such violation;
       ``(2) describe the class or classes of documentary material 
     required to be produced under such demand with such 
     definiteness and certainty as to permit such material to be 
     fairly identified;
       ``(3) state that the demand is immediately returnable or 
     prescribe a return date which will provide a reasonable 
     period within which the material may be assembled and made 
     available for inspection and copying or reproduction; and
       ``(4) identify the custodian to whom such material shall be 
     made available.
       ``(c) A demand under this section may not--
       ``(1) contain any requirement that would be considered 
     unreasonable if contained in a subpoena duces tecum issued by 
     a court of the United States in aid of grand jury 
     investigation of such alleged violation; or
       ``(2) require the production of any documentary evidence 
     that would be privileged from disclosure if demanded by a 
     subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the United States 
     in aid of a grand jury investigation of such alleged 
     violation.''.
       (c) Informational Materials.--
       (1) Definitions.--Section 1 of the Foreign Agents 
     Registration Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 611) is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (1), by striking ``Expect'' and inserting 
     ``Except''; and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (i) the following:
       ``(j) The term `informational materials' means any oral, 
     visual, graphic, written, or pictorial information or matter 
     of any kind, including matter published by means of 
     advertising, books, periodicals, newspapers, lectures, 
     broadcasts, motion pictures, or any means or instrumentality 
     of interstate or foreign commerce or otherwise.''.
       (2) Informational materials.--Section 4 of the Foreign 
     Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 614) 
     is amended--
       (A) in section (a)--
       (i) by inserting ``, including electronic mail and social 
     media,'' after ``United States mails''; and
       (ii) by striking ``, not later than forty-eight hours after 
     the beginning of the transmittal thereof, file with the 
     Attorney General two copies thereof'' and inserting ``file 
     such materials with the Attorney General in conjunction with, 
     and at the same intervals as, disclosures required under 
     section 2(b).''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)--
       (i) by striking ``It shall'' and inserting ``(1) Except as 
     provided in paragraph (2), it shall''; and
       (ii) by inserting at the end the following:
       ``(2) Foreign agents described in paragraph (1) may omit 
     disclosure required under that paragraph in individual 
     messages, posts, or transmissions on social media on behalf 
     of a foreign principal if the social media account or profile 
     from which the information is sent includes a conspicuous 
     statement that--
       ``(A) the account is operated by, and distributes 
     information on behalf of, the foreign agent; and
       ``(B) additional information about the account is on file 
     with the Department of Justice in Washington, District of 
     Columbia.
       ``(3) Informational materials disseminated by an agent of a 
     foreign principal as part of an activity that is exempt from 
     registration, or an activity which by itself would not 
     require registration, need not be filed under this 
     subsection.''.
       (d) Fees.--
       (1) Repeal.--The Department of Justice and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 1993 (title I of Public Law 102-395) is 
     amended, under the heading ``salaries and expenses, general 
     legal activities'', by striking ``In addition, 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, for fiscal year 1993 and 
     thereafter, the Attorney General shall establish and collect 
     fees to recover necessary expenses of the Registration Unit 
     (to include salaries, supplies, equipment and training) 
     pursuant to the Foreign Agents Registration Act, and shall 
     credit such fees to this appropriation, to remain available 
     until expended.''.
       (2) Registration fee.--The Foreign Agents Registration Act 
     of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), as amended by 
     this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
     following:


                                 ``FEES

       ``Sec. 16. The Attorney General shall establish and collect 
     a registration fee, as part of the initial filing requirement 
     and at no other time, to help defray the expenses of the 
     Registration Unit, and shall credit such fees to this 
     appropriation, to remain available until expended.''.
       (e) Reports to Congress.--Section 12 of the Foreign Agents 
     Registration Act of 1938, as amended, as redesignated by 
     subsection (b), is amended to read as follows:


                         ``REPORTS TO CONGRESS

       ``Sec. 12. The Assistant Attorney General for National 
     Security, through the FARA Registration Unit of the 
     Counterintelligence and Export Control Section, shall submit 
     a

[[Page S3497]]

     semiannual report to Congress regarding the administration of 
     this Act, including, for the reporting period, the 
     identification of--
       ``(1) registrations filed pursuant to this Act;
       ``(2) the nature, sources, and content of political 
     propaganda disseminated and distributed by agents of foreign 
     principal;
       ``(3) the number of investigations initiated based upon a 
     perceived violation of section 7; and
       ``(4) the number of such investigations that were referred 
     to the Attorney General for prosecution.''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 243. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN AND 
                   BLOCKING OF PROPERTY WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN 
                   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT FACILITATE CERTAIN 
                   TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN.

       (a) Prohibition of Certain Transactions.--
       (1) Issuance of licenses to conduct offshore dollar 
     clearing.--The President may not issue any license under the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.) to an offshore dollar clearing entity to conduct a 
     transaction with an Iranian financial institution in United 
     States dollars.
       (2) U-turn transactions.--Notwithstanding section 560.516 
     of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of this Act), a United 
     States person may not process any transfer of funds to or 
     from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons 
     in Iran or the Government of Iran, even if the transfer 
     arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give 
     effect to, an underlying transaction.
       (b) Blocking of Property of Foreign Financial 
     Institutions.--The President shall, in accordance with the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in all property 
     and interests in property of any foreign financial 
     institution that serves as an offshore dollar clearing entity 
     to conduct a transaction with an Iranian financial 
     institution in United States dollars if such property and 
     interests in property are in the United States, come within 
     the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
     control of a United States person.
       (c) Report Before Providing Iran Access to the United 
     States Dollar.--Not later than 30 days before the President 
     implements any measure that would provide access to the 
     United States dollar to the Government of Iran or an Iranian 
     person, the President shall submit to Congress a report that 
     describes the measure.
       (d) Termination.--This section shall terminate only on the 
     date on which the termination criteria in the Comprehensive 
     Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 
     (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.) has been met and the Secretary of 
     State certifies to Congress that Iran is no longer a state 
     sponsor of terrorism (as defined in section 301 of the 
     Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment 
     Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8541)).
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign 
     financial institution'' has the meaning of that term as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 
     section 104(i) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
     Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
     8513(i)).
       (2) Iranian financial institution.--The term ``Iranian 
     financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 104A(d) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
     Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
     8513b(d)).

     SEC. __. CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTS.

       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or section 
     135 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160e), each 
     report required by this Act or such section 135 to be 
     submitted to a committee or member of Congress on an on-going 
     basis shall be combined in one report that is submitted to 
     each such committee or member once every 180 days.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 244. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN AND 
                   BLOCKING OF PROPERTY WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN 
                   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT FACILITATE CERTAIN 
                   TRANSACTIONS WITH IRAN.

       (a) Prohibition of Certain Transactions.--
       (1) Issuance of licenses to conduct offshore dollar 
     clearing.--The President may not issue any license under the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.) to an offshore dollar clearing entity to conduct a 
     transaction with an Iranian financial institution in United 
     States dollars.
       (2) U-turn transactions.--Notwithstanding section 560.516 
     of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of this Act), a United 
     States person may not process any transfer of funds to or 
     from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons 
     in Iran or the Government of Iran, even if the transfer 
     arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give 
     effect to, an underlying transaction.
       (b) Blocking of Property of Foreign Financial 
     Institutions.--The President shall, in accordance with the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in all property 
     and interests in property of any foreign financial 
     institution that serves as an offshore dollar clearing entity 
     to conduct a transaction with an Iranian financial 
     institution in United States dollars if such property and 
     interests in property are in the United States, come within 
     the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
     control of a United States person.
       (c) Report Before Providing Iran Access to the United 
     States Dollar.--Not later than 30 days before the President 
     implements any measure that would provide access to the 
     United States dollar to the Government of Iran or an Iranian 
     person, the President shall submit to Congress a report that 
     describes the measure.
       (d) Termination.--This section shall terminate only on the 
     date on which the termination criteria in the Comprehensive 
     Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 
     (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.) has been met and the Secretary of 
     State certifies to Congress that Iran is no longer a state 
     sponsor of terrorism (as defined in section 301 of the 
     Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment 
     Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8541)).
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign 
     financial institution'' has the meaning of that term as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 
     section 104(i) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
     Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
     8513(i)).
       (2) Iranian financial institution.--The term ``Iranian 
     financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 104A(d) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
     Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
     8513b(d)).

     SEC. __. CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTS.

       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or section 
     135 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160e), each 
     report required by this Act or such section 135 to be 
     submitted to a committee or member of Congress on an on-going 
     basis shall be combined in one report that is submitted to 
     each such committee or member once every 180 days.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 245. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 37, strike lines 10 through 20, and insert the 
     following:
       (4) The IRGC meets the criteria for designation as a 
     foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (b) In General.--Beginning on the date that is 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
     shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with 
     respect to the IRGC and foreign persons that are officials, 
     agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
       (c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are sanctions applicable with respect to--
       (1) a foreign person pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property and 
     prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to 
     commit, or support terrorism); and
       (2) an organization designated as a foreign terrorist 
     organization under section 219 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 246. Mr. TOOMEY submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 43, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:

     SEC. 9. REPORT ON BOOK ENTRY TRANSFERS CONDUCTED BY FINANCIAL 
                   INSTITUTIONS IN CONNECTION WITH ASSETS OF THE 
                   GOVERNMENT OF IRAN.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     report that includes the following:

[[Page S3498]]

       (1) An analysis of the legality of overseas book entry 
     transfers conducted by financial institutions present in the 
     United States in connection with assets in which the 
     Government of Iran, or an agency or instrumentality of the 
     Government of Iran, holds a beneficial ownership interest, 
     under--
       (A) Executive Order 13599 (77 Fed. Reg. 6659; relating to 
     Blocking property of the Government of Iran and Iranian 
     financial institutions);
       (B) part 560 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
     (commonly known as the ``Iranian Transactions and Sanctions 
     Regulations''); or
       (C) any other relevant statutes, executive orders, 
     regulations, or judicial orders.
       (2) Recommendations, if any, on how to maintain the 
     integrity of United States sanctions and other financial 
     regulations in light of transfers described in paragraph (1).
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``financial institution'' means any entity 
     engaged in the business of dealing with monetary 
     transactions, including banks, trust companies, insurance 
     companies, brokerage firms, investment dealers, securities 
     intermediaries, central securities depositories, and post 
     trade services providers.
       (2) The term ``overseas book entry transfers'' means a 
     transaction in which cash is not moved from an account in the 
     United States to an account overseas by wire or other 
     analogous method, but instead is made accessible to an 
     overseas client of a financial institution carrying out the 
     transaction by entry of debits and credits in books or 
     ledgers internal to that financial institution.
       (3) The term ``present in the United States'', with respect 
     to a financial institution, means that the financial 
     institution has sufficient nexus with the United States so as 
     to be subject to the regulatory authority of the Department 
     of the Treasury.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 247. Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Warner) 
submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 
722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's 
ballistic missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, 
and violations of human rights, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       On page 43, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:

     SEC. 9. MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRAN RELATING TO 
                   SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES UNDERMINING UNITED 
                   STATES CYBERSECURITY.

       (a) Investigation.--The President shall initiate an 
     investigation into the possible designation of an Iranian 
     person under subsection (b) upon receipt by the President of 
     credible information indicating that the person has engaged 
     in conduct described in subsection (b).
       (b) Designation.--The President shall designate under this 
     subsection any Iranian person that the President determines 
     has knowingly--
       (1) engaged in significant activities undermining United 
     States cybersecurity conducted by the Government of Iran; or
       (2) acted for or on behalf of the Government of Iran in 
     connection with such activities.
       (c) Sanctions.--The President shall block and prohibit all 
     transactions in all property and interests in property of any 
     Iranian person designated under subsection (b) if such 
     property and interests in property are in the United States, 
     come within the United States, or are or come within the 
     possession or control of a United States person.
       (d) Suspension of Sanctions.--
       (1) In general.--The President may suspend the application 
     of sanctions under subsection (c) with respect to an Iranian 
     person only if the President submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees in writing a certification described 
     in paragraph (2) and a detailed justification for the 
     certification.
       (2) Certification described.--
       (A) In general.--A certification described in this 
     paragraph with respect to an Iranian person is a 
     certification by the President that--
       (i) the person has not, during the 12-month period 
     immediately preceding the date of the certification, 
     knowingly engaged in activities that would qualify the person 
     for designation under subsection (b); and
       (ii) the person is not expected to resume any such 
     activities.
       (B) Form of certification.--The certification described in 
     subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form but 
     may include a classified annex.
       (e) Reimposition of Sanctions.--If sanctions are suspended 
     with respect to an Iranian person under subsection (d), such 
     sanctions shall be reinstated if the President determines 
     that the person has resumed the activity that resulted in the 
     initial imposition of sanctions or has engaged in any other 
     activity subject to sanctions relating to the involvement of 
     the person in significant activities undermining United 
     States cybersecurity on behalf of the Government of Iran.
       (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to 
     the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1701 et seq.), the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
     Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et 
     seq.), or any other provision of law.
       (g) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that describes significant activities 
     undermining United States cybersecurity conducted by the 
     Government of Iran, a person owned or controlled, directly or 
     indirectly, by that Government, or any person acting for or 
     on behalf of that Government.
       (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) An assessment of the extent to which a foreign 
     government has provided material support to the Government of 
     Iran, to any person owned or controlled, directly or 
     indirectly, by that Government, or to any person acting for 
     or on behalf of that Government, in connection with the 
     conduct of significant activities undermining United States 
     cybersecurity.
       (B) A strategy to counter efforts by Iran to conduct 
     significant activities undermining United States 
     cybersecurity that includes a description of efforts to 
     engage foreign governments in preventing the Government of 
     Iran, persons owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by 
     that Government, and persons acting for or on behalf of that 
     Government from conducting significant activities undermining 
     United States cybersecurity.
       (3) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
     shall be submitted in an unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (h) Cybersecurity Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``cybersecurity'' means the activity or process, ability or 
     capability, or state whereby information and communications 
     systems and the information contained therein are protected 
     from or defended against damage, unauthorized use or 
     modification, or exploitation.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 248. Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr. Casey) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions 
with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, 
support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of human 
rights, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON IRAN AND NORTH KOREA NUCLEAR 
                   AND BALLISTIC MISSILE COOPERATION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Iran developed a close working relationship with North 
     Korea on many ballistic missile programs, dating back to an 
     acquisition of Scud missiles from North Korea in the mid-
     1980s.
       (2) By the mid-1980s North Korea reverse-engineered Scud B 
     missiles originally received from Egypt, and developed the 
     500-kilometer range Scud C missile in 1991, and sold both the 
     Scud B and Scud C, as well as missile production technology, 
     to Iran.
       (3) In 1992, then-Director of the Central Intelligence 
     Robert Gates, in testimony to Congress, identified Iran as a 
     recipient of North Korean Scud missiles.
       (4) In 1993, then-Director of Central Intelligence James 
     Woolsey provided more detail, stating that North Korea had 
     sold Iran extended range Scud C missiles and agreed to sell 
     other forms of missile technology.
       (5) Annual threat assessments from the intelligence 
     community during the 1990s showed that North Korea's ongoing 
     export of ballistic missiles provided a qualitative increase 
     in capabilities to countries such as Iran.
       (6) The same threat assessments noted that Iran was using 
     North Korean ballistic missile goods and services to achieve 
     its goal of self-sufficiency in the production of medium-
     range ballistic missiles.
       (7) The intelligence community assessed in the 1990s that 
     Iran's acquisition of missile systems or key missile-related 
     components could improve Iran's ability to produce an 
     intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM).
       (8) Throughout the 2000s, the intelligence community 
     continued to assess that North Korean cooperation with Iran's 
     ballistic missile program was ongoing and significant.
       (10) North Korea built the nuclear reactor in Syria that 
     was bombed in 2007. Syria failed to report the construction 
     of the reactor to the International Atomic Energy Agency 
     (IAEA), which was Syria's obligation under its safeguards 
     agreement with the agency.
       (11) Official sources confirm that Iran and North Korea 
     have engaged in various forms of clandestine nuclear 
     cooperation.
       (12) North Korea and Iran obtained designs and materials 
     related to uranium enrichment from a clandestine procurement 
     network run by Abdul Qadeer Khan.
       (13) In the early 2000s, North Korea exported, with the 
     assistance of Abdul Qadeer Khan, uranium hexafluoride (UF6) 
     gas to Libya, which was intended to be used in Libya's 
     clandestine nuclear weapons program.
       (14) On January 6, 2016, North Korea conducted its fourth 
     nuclear weapons test.
       (15) On September 9, 2016, North Korea conducted its fifth 
     nuclear weapons test.
       (16) Iranian officials reportedly traveled to North Korea 
     to witness its three previous nuclear tests in 2006, 2009, 
     and 2013.
       (17) Before North Korea's 2013 test, a senior American 
     official was quoted as saying ``it's

[[Page S3499]]

     very possible that North Koreans are testing for two 
     countries''.
       (18) In September 2012, Iran and North Korea signed an 
     agreement for technological and scientific cooperation.
       (19) In an April 2015 interview with CNN, then-Secretary of 
     Defense Ashton Carter said that North Korea and Iran ``could 
     be'' cooperating to develop a nuclear weapon.
       (20) On March 11, 2017, Director of National Intelligence 
     Dan Coats provided written testimony to Congress that stated 
     that Pyongyang's ``export of ballistic missiles and 
     associated materials to several countries, including Iran and 
     Syria, and its assistance to Syria's construction of a 
     nuclear reactor . . . illustrate its willingness to 
     proliferate dangerous technologies''.
       (21) A 2016 Congressional Research Service report confirmed 
     that ``ballistic missile technology cooperation between the 
     two [Iran and North Korea] is significant and meaningful''.
       (22) Admiral Bill Gortney, Commander of United States 
     Northern Command, testified to Congress on April 14, 2016, 
     that ``Iran's continuing pursuit of long-range missile 
     capabilities and ballistic missile and space launch programs, 
     in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions, 
     remains a serious concern''.
       (23) There is substantial evidence that Iran and North 
     Korea are working together on nuclear weapons development.
       (24) Since the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277) repealed requirements for the 
     intelligence community to provide unclassified annual report 
     to Congress on the ``Acquisition of Technology Relating to 
     Weapons of Mass Destruction and Advanced Conventional 
     Munitions'', the number of unclassified reports to Congress 
     on nuclear-weapons issues decreased considerably.
       (25) Absent these reports, the President has not been 
     required to detail to Congress the assessment of cooperation 
     between North Korea and Iran on nuclear weapon or ballistic 
     missile development.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the ballistic missile programs of Iran and North Korea 
     represent a serious threat to allies of the United States in 
     the Middle East, Europe, and Asia, members of the Armed 
     Forces deployed in those regions, and ultimately the United 
     States;
       (2) further cooperation between Iran and North Korea on 
     nuclear weapons or ballistic missile technology is not in the 
     security interests of the United States or our allies;
       (3) United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015), 
     which was unanimously adopted by the United Nations Security 
     Council and supported by the international community, called 
     upon Iran not to undertake any activity related to ballistic 
     missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear 
     weapons, including launches of such missiles, for an eight 
     year period beginning in 2015; and
       (4) the Director of National Intelligence has assessed that 
     Iran would use ballistic missiles as its ``preferred method 
     of delivering nuclear weapons'' which could eventually 
     threaten the United States.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Secretary of State, and the heads of other relevant agencies, 
     shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     report that includes an assessment of the extent of 
     cooperation on nuclear programs, ballistic missile 
     development, chemical and biological weapons development, or 
     conventional weapons programs between the Government of Iran 
     and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of 
     North Korea, including the identity of Iranian and North 
     Korean persons that have knowingly engaged in or directed the 
     provision of material support or the exchange of information 
     (including through the transfer of goods, services, 
     technology, or intellectual property) between the Government 
     of Iran and the Government of the Democratic People's 
     Republic of North Korea;
       (2) And a determination whether any of the activities 
     described in paragraph (1) violate United Nations Security 
     Council Resolutions 1695 (2006), 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 
     2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2231 (2015), 2270 (2016) and 2321 
     (2016).
       (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 249. Mr. GARDNER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 232 proposed by Mr. McConnell (for Mr. Crapo (for himself, 
Mr. Brown, Mr. Corker, and Mr. Cardin)) to the bill S. 722, to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 62 of the amendment, between lines 18 and 19, 
     insert the following:
       (3) Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration.
       At the end of the amendment, add the following:

     SEC. 292. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION ON PROCUREMENT OF PRODUCTS OR 
                   SERVICES RELATING TO SPACE LAUNCHES.

       Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title 
     shall be construed to authorize the imposition of any 
     sanction or other condition, limitation, restriction, or 
     prohibition, that directly or indirectly impedes the supply 
     by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or 
     service, or the procurement of such product or service by any 
     contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other 
     entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch 
     conducted for--
       (1) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
       (2) the Department of Defense; or
       (3) any other person.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 250. Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Strange, Mr. 
Nelson, Mr. Warner, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Kaine) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions 
with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, 
support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of human 
rights, and for other purposes; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. ___. EXCEPTION RELATING TO ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL 
                   AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) In General.--This Act and the amendments made by this 
     Act shall not apply with respect to activities of the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act or the 
     amendments made by this Act shall be construed to authorize 
     the imposition of any sanction or other condition, 
     limitation, restriction, or prohibition, that directly or 
     indirectly impedes the supply by any entity of the Russian 
     Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of 
     such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of 
     the United States or any other entity, relating to or in 
     connection with any space launch conducted for--
       (1) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
       (2) the Department of Defense; or
       (3) any other person.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 251. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SECTION 2. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

       Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the 
     imposition of any sanction or any other condition, 
     limitation, restriction, or prohibition, that directly or 
     indirectly impedes the supply by any Russian Federation 
     entity of any product or service, or the procurement of such 
     product or service, by any United States contractor or 
     subcontractor or any other entity, related to or in 
     connection with any space launch conducted for the Federal 
     Government or under a federal contract
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 252. Mr. WARNER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 232 proposed by Mr. McConnell (for Mr. Crapo (for himself, 
Mr. Brown, Mr. Corker, and Mr. Cardin)) to the bill S. 722, to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows:

       On page 62 of the amendment, between lines 18 and 19, 
     insert the following:
       (3) Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration.
       At the end of the amendment, add the following:

     SEC. 292. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION ON PROCUREMENT OF PRODUCTS OR 
                   SERVICES RELATING TO SPACE LAUNCHES.

       Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title 
     shall be construed to authorize the imposition of any 
     sanction or other condition, limitation, restriction, or 
     prohibition, that directly or indirectly impedes the supply 
     by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or 
     service, or the procurement of such product or service by any 
     contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other 
     entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch 
     conducted for--
       (1) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
       (2) the Department of Defense; or

[[Page S3500]]

       (3) any non-United States Government person.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 253. Mr. LANKFORD submitted an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Countering 
     Iran's Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Regional strategy for countering conventional and asymmetric 
              Iranian threats in the Middle East and North Africa.
Sec. 4. Imposition of additional sanctions in response to Iran's 
              ballistic missile program.
Sec. 5. Imposition of terrorism-related sanctions with respect to the 
              IRGC.
Sec. 6. Imposition of additional sanctions with respect to persons 
              responsible for human rights abuses.
Sec. 7. Enforcement of arms embargos.
Sec. 8. Continuation in effect of sanctions for Iranian support 
              relating to terrorism and Iran's ballistic missile 
              program.
Sec. 9. Review of applicability of sanctions relating to Iran's support 
              for terrorism and its ballistic missile program.
Sec. 10. Report on coordination of sanctions between the United States 
              and the European Union.
Sec. 11. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran.
Sec. 12. Exceptions for national security and humanitarian assistance; 
              rule of construction.
Sec. 13. Waiver authority; termination of sanctions.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Act of international terrorism.--The term ``act of 
     international terrorism'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
     172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 
     1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means a 
     person that is not a United States person.
       (4) Iranian person.--The term ``Iranian person'' means--
       (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of Iran; or
       (B) an entity organized under the laws of Iran or otherwise 
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran.
       (5) IRGC.--The term ``IRGC'' means Iran's Islamic 
     Revolutionary Guard Corps.
       (6) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 
     1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (7) United states person.--The term ``United States 
     person'' means--
       (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted 
     for permanent residence to the United States; or
       (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States 
     or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a 
     foreign branch of such an entity.

     SEC. 3. REGIONAL STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING CONVENTIONAL AND 
                   ASYMMETRIC IRANIAN THREATS IN THE MIDDLE EAST 
                   AND NORTH AFRICA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
     Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
     of the Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence 
     shall jointly develop and submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a strategy for deterring 
     conventional and asymmetric Iranian activities and threats 
     that directly threaten the United States and key allies in 
     the Middle East, North Africa, and beyond.
       (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
     shall include at a minimum the following:
       (1) A summary of the near- and long-term United States 
     objectives, plans, and means for countering Iran's 
     destabilizing activities, including identification of 
     countries that share the objective of countering Iran's 
     destabilizing activities.
       (2) A summary of the capabilities and contributions of 
     individual countries to shared efforts to counter Iran's 
     destabilizing activities, and a summary of additional actions 
     or contributions that each country could take to further 
     contribute.
       (3) An assessment of Iran's conventional force capabilities 
     and an assessment of Iran's plans to upgrade its conventional 
     force capabilities, including its acquisition, development, 
     and deployment of ballistic and cruise missile capabilities, 
     unmanned aerial vehicles, and maritime offensive and anti-
     access or area denial capabilities.
       (4) An assessment of Iran's chemical and biological weapons 
     capabilities and an assessment of Iranian plans to upgrade 
     its chemical or biological weapons capabilities.
       (5) An assessment of Iran's asymmetric activities in the 
     region, including--
       (A) the size, capabilities, and activities of the IRGC, 
     including the Quds Force;
       (B) the size, capabilities, and activities of Iran's cyber 
     operations;
       (C) the types and amount of support, including funding, 
     lethal and nonlethal contributions, and training, provided to 
     Hezbollah, Hamas, special groups in Iraq, the regime of 
     Bashar al-Assad in Syria, Houthi fighters in Yemen, and other 
     violent groups across the Middle East; and
       (D) the scope and objectives of Iran's information 
     operations and use of propaganda.
       (6) A summary of United States actions, unilaterally and in 
     cooperation with foreign governments, to counter 
     destabilizing Iranian activities, including--
       (A) interdiction of Iranian lethal arms bound for groups 
     designated as foreign terrorist organizations under section 
     219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
       (B) Iran's interference in international commercial 
     shipping lanes;
       (C) attempts by Iran to undermine or subvert 
     internationally recognized governments in the Middle East 
     region; and
       (D) Iran's support for the regime of Bashar al-Assad in 
     Syria, including--
       (i) financial assistance, military equipment and personnel, 
     and other support provided to that regime; and
       (ii) support and direction to other armed actors that are 
     not Syrian or Iranian and are acting on behalf of that 
     regime.
       (c) Form of Strategy.--The strategy required by subsection 
     (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 4. IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS IN RESPONSE TO 
                   IRAN'S BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM.

       (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--The President shall impose 
     the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any 
     person that the President determines, on or after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act--
       (1) knowingly engages in any activity that materially 
     contributes to the activities of the Government of Iran with 
     respect to its ballistic missile program, or any other 
     program in Iran for developing, deploying, or maintaining 
     systems capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction, 
     including any efforts to manufacture, acquire, possess, 
     develop, transport, transfer, or use such capabilities;
       (2) is a successor entity to a person referred to in 
     paragraph (1);
       (3) owns or controls or is owned or controlled by a person 
     referred to in paragraph (1);
       (4) forms an entity with the purpose of evading sanctions 
     that would otherwise be imposed pursuant to paragraph (3);
       (5) is acting for or on behalf of a person referred to in 
     paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4); or
       (6) knowingly provides or attempts to provide financial, 
     material, technological, or other support for, or goods or 
     services in support of, a person referred to in paragraph 
     (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
     accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
     property and interests in property of any person subject to 
     subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
     shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
     subsection (a) that is an alien.
       (c) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the 
     penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 
     of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
     act described in subsection (a) of that section.
       (d) Report on Contributions to Iran's Ballistic Missile 
     Program.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report describing each person that--
       (A) has, during the period specified in paragraph (2), 
     conducted any activity that has materially contributed to the 
     activities of the Government of Iran with respect to its 
     ballistic missile program, or any other program in Iran for 
     developing, deploying, or maintaining systems capable of 
     delivering weapons of mass destruction, including any efforts 
     to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, 
     transfer, or use such capabilities;
       (B) is a successor entity to a person referred to in 
     subparagraph (A);
       (C) owns or controls or is owned or controlled by a person 
     referred to in subparagraph (A);
       (D) forms an entity with the purpose of evading sanctions 
     that could be imposed as a

[[Page S3501]]

     result of a relationship described in subparagraph (C);
       (E) is acting for or on behalf of a person referred to in 
     subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D); or
       (F) is known or believed to have provided, or attempted to 
     provide, during the period specified in paragraph (2), 
     financial, material, technological, or other support for, or 
     goods or services in support of, any material contribution to 
     a program described in subparagraph (A) carried out by a 
     person described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E).
       (2) Period specified.--The period specified in this 
     paragraph is--
       (A) in the case of the first report submitted under 
     paragraph (1), the period beginning January 1, 2016, and 
     ending on the date the report is submitted; and
       (B) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 180-day 
     period preceding the submission of the report.
       (3) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 5. IMPOSITION OF TERRORISM-RELATED SANCTIONS WITH 
                   RESPECT TO THE IRGC.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The IRGC is subject to sanctions pursuant to Executive 
     Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking 
     property of weapons of mass destruction delivery system 
     proliferators and their supporters), the Comprehensive Iran 
     Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 
     U.S.C. 8501 et seq.), Executive Order 13553 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note; relating to blocking property of certain persons with 
     respect to serious human rights abuses by the Government of 
     Iran), and Executive Order 13606 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
     relating to blocking the property and suspending entry into 
     the United States of certain persons with respect to grave 
     human rights abuses by the Governments of Iran and Syria via 
     information technology).
       (2) The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force (in 
     this section referred to as the ``IRGC-QF'') is the primary 
     arm of the Government of Iran for executing its policy of 
     supporting terrorist and insurgent groups. The IRGC-QF 
     provides material, logistical assistance, training, and 
     financial support to militants and terrorist operatives 
     throughout the Middle East and South Asia and was designated 
     for the imposition of sanctions by the Secretary of Treasury 
     pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
     relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions 
     with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support 
     terrorism) in October 2007 for its support of terrorism.
       (3) The IRGC, not just the IRGC-QF, is responsible for 
     implementing Iran's international program of destabilizing 
     activities, support for acts of international terrorism, and 
     ballistic missile program.
       (b) In General.--Beginning on the date that is 90 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
     shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (c) with 
     respect to the IRGC and foreign persons that are officials, 
     agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
       (c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
     subsection are sanctions applicable with respect to a foreign 
     person pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting 
     transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or 
     support terrorism).

     SEC. 6. IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
                   PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a list of each person the Secretary 
     determines, based on credible evidence, on or after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act--
       (1) is responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or 
     other gross violations of internationally recognized human 
     rights committed against individuals in Iran who seek--
       (A) to expose illegal activity carried out by officials of 
     the Government of Iran; or
       (B) to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote internationally 
     recognized human rights and freedoms, such as the freedoms of 
     religion, expression, association, and assembly, and the 
     rights to a fair trial and democratic elections; or
       (2) acts as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign person in 
     a matter relating to an activity described in paragraph (1).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--
       (1) In general.--The President may, in accordance with the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.), block all transactions in all property and 
     interests in property of a person on the list required by 
     subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       (2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     paragraph (1) or any regulation, license, or order issued to 
     carry out paragraph (1) shall be subject to the penalties set 
     forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
     to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
     described in subsection (a) of that section.

     SEC. 7. ENFORCEMENT OF ARMS EMBARGOS.

       (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (d), the 
     President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection 
     (b) with respect to any person that the President 
     determines--
       (1) knowingly engages in any activity that materially 
     contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer directly or 
     indirectly to or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of 
     Iran, of any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large 
     caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack 
     helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, as 
     defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register of 
     Conventional Arms, or related materiel, including spare 
     parts; or
       (2) knowingly provides to Iran any technical training, 
     financial resources or services, advice, other services or 
     assistance related to the supply, sale, transfer, 
     manufacture, maintenance, or use of arms and related materiel 
     described in paragraph (1).
       (b) Sanctions Described.--
       (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
     accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all 
     property and interests in property of any person subject to 
     subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are 
     in the United States, come within the United States, or are 
     or come within the possession or control of a United States 
     person.
       (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
     shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
     subsection (a) that is an alien.
       (c) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
     violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
     subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
     to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the 
     penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 
     of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
     act described in subsection (a) of that section.
       (d) Exception.--The President is not required to impose 
     sanctions under subsection (a) with respect to a person for 
     engaging in an activity described in that subsection if the 
     President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that--
       (1) permitting the activity is in the national security 
     interest of the United States;
       (2) Iran no longer presents a significant threat to the 
     national security of the United States and to the allies of 
     the United States; and
       (3) the Government of Iran has ceased providing operational 
     or financial support for acts of international terrorism and 
     no longer satisfies the requirements for designation as a 
     state sponsor of terrorism.
       (e) State Sponsor of Terrorism Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``state sponsor of terrorism'' means a country the 
     government of which the Secretary of State has determined to 
     be a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts 
     of international terrorism for purposes of--
       (1) section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export Administration Act of 
     1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)(1)(A)) (as continued in effect 
     pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.));
       (2) section 620A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     (22 U.S.C. 2371(a));
       (3) section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
     2780(d)); or
       (4) any other provision of law.

     SEC. 8. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS FOR IRANIAN 
                   SUPPORT RELATING TO TERRORISM AND IRAN'S 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--United States sanctions imposed with 
     respect to a person under Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 
     1701 note; relating to blocking property of weapons of mass 
     destruction delivery system proliferators and their 
     supporters) or Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
     relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions 
     with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support 
     terrorism), and imposed as a result of activities described 
     in subsection (b), that are in effect on the day before the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, shall remain in effect 
     until the date that is 90 days after the date on which the 
     President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
     the certification described in subsection (c) with respect to 
     the person.
       (b) Activities Described.--An activity described in this 
     subsection is--
       (1) any activity that materially contributes to the 
     activities of the Government of Iran with respect to its 
     ballistic missile program; or
       (2) support by the Government of Iran for acts of 
     international terrorism.
       (c) Certification.--
       (1) In general.--A certification described in this 
     subsection is a certification that the person with respect to 
     which sanctions were imposed under Executive Order 13382 or 
     Executive Order 13224 has not, during the 3-month period 
     immediately preceding the date of the certification, provided 
     support for or otherwise facilitated or engaged in any 
     activity described in subsection (b).
       (2) Submission to congress.--
       (A) In general.--The President shall submit the 
     certification described in paragraph

[[Page S3502]]

     (1) to the appropriate congressional committees in writing 
     and shall include a detailed justification for the 
     certification.
       (B) Form of certification.--The certification described in 
     paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may 
     include a classified annex.
       (d) Reimposition.--If sanctions are suspended with respect 
     to a person under this section, such sanctions shall be 
     reinstated if the President determines that the person has 
     resumed any activity described in subsection (b).

     SEC. 9. REVIEW OF APPLICABILITY OF SANCTIONS RELATING TO 
                   IRAN'S SUPPORT FOR TERRORISM AND ITS BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILE PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall conduct a 
     review of all persons on the list of specially designated 
     nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Office of 
     Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury for 
     activities relating to Iran--
       (1) to assess the conduct of such persons as that conduct 
     relates to--
       (A) any activity that materially contributes to the 
     activities of the Government of Iran with respect to its 
     ballistic missile program; or
       (B) support by the Government of Iran for acts of 
     international terrorism; and
       (2) to determine the applicability of sanctions with 
     respect to such persons under--
       (A) Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
     blocking property of weapons of mass destruction delivery 
     system proliferators and their supporters); or
       (B) Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
     blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons 
     who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
       (b) Implementation of Sanctions.--If the President 
     determines under subsection (a) that sanctions under an 
     Executive Order specified in paragraph (2) of that subsection 
     are applicable with respect to a person, the President 
     shall--
       (1) impose sanctions with respect to that person pursuant 
     to that Executive Order; or
       (2) exercise the waiver authority provided under section 
     13.

     SEC. 10. REPORT ON COORDINATION OF SANCTIONS BETWEEN THE 
                   UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN UNION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that includes the following:
       (1) A description of each instance, during the period 
     specified in subsection (b)--
       (A) in which the United States has imposed sanctions with 
     respect to a person for activity related to the proliferation 
     of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such 
     weapons to or by Iran, support for acts of international 
     terrorism by Iran, or human rights abuses in Iran, but in 
     which the European Union has not imposed corresponding 
     sanctions; and
       (B) in which the European Union has imposed sanctions with 
     respect to a person for activity related to the proliferation 
     of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such 
     weapons to or by Iran, support for acts of international 
     terrorism by Iran, or human rights abuses in Iran, but in 
     which the United States has not imposed corresponding 
     sanctions.
       (2) An explanation for the reason for each discrepancy 
     between sanctions imposed by the European Union and sanctions 
     imposed by the United States described in subparagraphs (A) 
     and (B) of paragraph (1).
       (b) Period Specified.--The period specified in this 
     subsection is--
       (1) in the case of the first report submitted under 
     subsection (a), the period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and ending on the date the report is 
     submitted; and
       (2) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 180-day 
     period preceding the submission of the report.
       (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 11. REPORT ON UNITED STATES CITIZENS DETAINED BY IRAN.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on United States citizens, including 
     United States citizens who are also citizens of other 
     countries, detained by Iran or groups supported by Iran that 
     includes--
       (1) information regarding any officials of the Government 
     of Iran involved in any way in the detentions; and
       (2) a summary of efforts the United States Government has 
     taken to secure the swift release of those United States 
     citizens.
       (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 12. EXCEPTIONS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AND HUMANITARIAN 
                   ASSISTANCE; RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

       (a) In General.--The following activities shall be exempt 
     from sanctions under sections 4, 5, 6, and 7:
       (1) Any activity subject to the reporting requirements 
     under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
     3091 et seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities 
     of the United States.
       (2) The admission of an alien to the United States if such 
     admission is necessary to comply with United States 
     obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations 
     and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters 
     of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, 
     and entered into force November 21, 1947, or under the 
     Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 
     1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or other 
     applicable international obligations of the United States.
       (3) The conduct or facilitation of a transaction for the 
     sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical 
     devices to Iran or for the provision of humanitarian 
     assistance to the people of Iran, including engaging in a 
     financial transaction relating to humanitarian assistance or 
     for humanitarian purposes or transporting goods or services 
     that are necessary to carry out operations relating to 
     humanitarian assistance or humanitarian purposes.
       (b) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--A 
     requirement or the authority to block and prohibit all 
     transactions in all property and interests in property under 
     this Act shall not include the authority to impose sanctions 
     with respect to the importation of goods.
       (c) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out this Act.
       (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
     construed to limit the authority of the President under the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.).
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
     commodity'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of 
     the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
       (2) Good.--The term ``good'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 
     (50 U.S.C. 4618) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
     et seq.)).
       (3) Medical device.--The term ``medical device'' has the 
     meaning given the term ``device'' in section 201 of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
       (4) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the meaning given 
     the term ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
     and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

     SEC. 13. WAIVER AUTHORITY; TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS.

       (a) Temporary Waiver Authority.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (b), the President may waive a requirement under 
     this Act to impose or maintain sanctions with respect to a 
     person for one period of not more than 120 days.
       (b) Termination of Sanctions.--Sanctions waived under 
     subsection (a) shall terminate if--
       (1) not later than 30 days before the waiver under 
     subsection (a) with respect to the sanctions expires, the 
     President submits to Congress a request to terminate the 
     sanctions; and
       (2) during the 30-day period beginning on the date on which 
     the President submits the request to Congress, a joint 
     resolution of approval is enacted into law under subsection 
     (c).
       (c) Joint Resolution of Approval.--
       (1) Joint resolution of approval defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``joint resolution of approval'' means a 
     joint resolution the sole matter after the resolving clause 
     of which is as follows: ``That Congress approves the request 
     of the President under section 12 of the Countering Iran's 
     Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 submitted on ____ to 
     terminate the application of sanctions with respect to 
     ____.'', with the first blank space being filled with the 
     date and the second blank space being filled with the name of 
     the person to which the request applies.
       (2) Introduction.--On or after the day on which the 
     President submits to Congress a request under subsection 
     (b)(2), a joint resolution of approval with respect to the 
     request may be introduced--
       (A) in the House, by the majority leader of the House, for 
     the majority leader and the minority leader of the House, or 
     by Members of the House designated by the majority leader and 
     minority leader of the House; and
       (B) in the Senate, by the majority leader of the Senate, 
     for the majority leader and the minority leader of the 
     Senate, or by Members of the Senate designated by the 
     majority leader and minority leader of the Senate.
       (3) Committee referral.--A joint resolution of approval 
     shall be referred by the presiding officers of the respective 
     Houses to the appropriate committee.
       (4) Amendments prohibited.--No amendment to a joint 
     resolution of approval shall be in order in either the House 
     of Representatives or the Senate. It shall not be in order to 
     suspend the application of this paragraph in either House or 
     for the Presiding Officer to entertain a request to suspend 
     the application of this paragraph by unanimous consent.
       (5) Period for committee consideration.--If the committee 
     of either House to which a joint resolution of approval has 
     been referred has not reported the resolution at the close of 
     the 15th day after the introduction of the resolution, the 
     committee shall be automatically discharged from further 
     consideration

[[Page S3503]]

     of the resolution and the resolution shall be placed on the 
     appropriate calendar.
       (6) Floor consideration.--
       (A) In general.--A vote on final passage of a joint 
     resolution of approval shall be taken in each House on or 
     before the close of the 15th day after the resolution is 
     reported by the committee of that House to which the 
     resolution was referred, or after that committee has been 
     discharged from further consideration of the resolution under 
     paragraph (5).
       (B) Resolution passed by other house.--If, prior to the 
     passage by one House of a joint resolution of approval of 
     that House, that House receives the same resolution from the 
     other House, then--
       (i) the procedure in that House shall be the same as if no 
     resolution had been received from the other House; but
       (ii) the vote on final passage shall be on the resolution 
     of the other House.
       (7) Floor consideration in the house of representatives.--
       (A) Motions to proceed.--A motion in the House of 
     Representatives to proceed to the consideration of a joint 
     resolution of approval shall be highly privileged and not 
     debatable. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, 
     nor shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by 
     which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
       (B) Time for debate.--Debate in the House of 
     Representatives on a joint resolution of approval shall be 
     limited to not more than 20 hours, which shall be divided 
     equally between those favoring and those opposing the 
     resolution. A motion further to limit debate shall not be 
     debatable. It shall not be in order to move to recommit a 
     joint resolution of approval or to move to reconsider the 
     vote by which a joint resolution of approval is agreed to or 
     disagreed to.
       (C) Motions to postpone.--Motions to postpone, made in the 
     House of Representatives with respect to the consideration of 
     a joint resolution of approval, and motions to proceed to the 
     consideration of other business, shall be decided without 
     debate.
       (D) Appeals.--All appeals from the decisions of the Chair 
     relating to the application of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives to the procedure relating to a joint 
     resolution of approval shall be decided without debate.
       (E) Applicability of rules.--Except to the extent 
     specifically provided in the preceding provisions of this 
     paragraph, consideration of a joint resolution of approval 
     shall be governed by the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives applicable to other resolutions in similar 
     circumstances.
       (8) Floor consideration in the senate.--
       (A) Motions to proceed.--A motion in the Senate to proceed 
     to the consideration of a joint resolution of approval shall 
     be privileged and not debatable. An amendment to the motion 
     shall not be in order, nor shall it be in order to move to 
     reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or 
     disagreed to.
       (B) Time for debate.--Debate in the Senate on a joint 
     resolution of approval, and all debatable motions and appeals 
     in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 
     hours. The time shall be equally divided between, and 
     controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or 
     their designees.
       (C) Motions and appeals.--Debate in the Senate on any 
     debatable motion or appeal in connection with a joint 
     resolution of approval shall be limited to not more than 1 
     hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the 
     mover and the manager of the resolution, except that in the 
     event the manager of the resolution is in favor of any such 
     motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto shall be 
     controlled by the minority leader or the minority leader's 
     designee. Such leaders, or either of them, may, from time 
     under their control on the passage of a joint resolution of 
     approval, allot additional time to any Senator during the 
     consideration of any debatable motion or appeal.
       (D) Motions to further limit debate.--A motion in the 
     Senate to further limit debate on a joint resolution of 
     approval is not debatable.
       (E) Motions to recommit.--A motion to recommit a joint 
     resolution of approval is not in order.
       (9) Rules of house of representatives and senate.--This 
     subsection is enacted by Congress--
       (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
     and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such 
     is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, 
     but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be 
     followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution of 
     approval, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that 
     it is inconsistent with such rules; and
       (B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
     procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
     to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
     House.
       (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to limit the authority of the President to impose 
     sanctions under this Act with respect to a person with 
     respect to which sanctions were terminated under this 
     section.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 254. Mr. MORAN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 722, to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end, add the following:

     SEC. 13. RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN PAYMENTS RELATING TO CLAIMS 
                   BROUGHT BEFORE THE IRAN-UNITED STATES CLAIMS 
                   TRIBUNAL.

       (a) In General.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     or otherwise made available for any fiscal year may be 
     obligated or expended for a payment described in subsection 
     (b) until the President certifies to Congress that the 
     Government of Iran has paid all compensatory damages awarded 
     to a United States person in a final judgment--
       (1) issued by a district court of the United States under 
     Federal or State law against the Government of Iran; and
       (2) arising from an act of international terrorism, for 
     which the Government of Iran was determined not to be immune 
     from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States or 
     of the States under section 1605A of title 28, United States 
     Code, or section 1605(a)(7) of such title (as in effect on 
     January 27, 2008).
       (b) Payments Described.--A payment described in this 
     subsection is a payment by the United States to the 
     Government of Iran or a national of Iran relating to the 
     settlement of a claim before the Iran-United States Claims 
     Tribunal.
       (c) Act of International Terrorism Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``act of international terrorism'' 
     includes--
       (1) an act of torture, extrajudicial killing, aircraft 
     sabotage, or hostage taking, as those terms are defined in 
     section 1605A(h) of title 28, United States Code; and
       (2) providing material support or resources, as defined in 
     section 2339A of title 18, United States Code, for an act 
     described in subparagraph (A).

                          ____________________



