

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2963]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

     REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY THAT WAS 
  ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 13303 OF MAY 22, 2003, WITH 
               RESPECT TO THE STABILIZATION OF IRAQ--PM 7

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) 
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, 
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the 
President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the 
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect 
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have 
sent to the Federal Register for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency with respect to the stabilization 
of Iraq that was declared in Executive Order 13303 of May 22, 2003, is 
to continue in effect beyond May 22, 2017.
  Obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration and 
maintenance of peace and security in the country, and the development 
of political, administrative, and economic institutions in Iraq 
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national 
security and foreign policy of the United States. Accordingly, I have 
determined that it is necessary to continue the national emergency with 
respect to the stabilization of Iraq.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, May 16, 2017.

                          ____________________



