

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3010]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING THE BROTHERS OF KAPPA ALPHA PSI

  (Mr. LAWSON of Florida asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. LAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
brothers of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Incorporated, during their 
annual James ``Biff'' Carter Kappas on Capitol Hill Legislative Policy 
Conference.
  Each year, donning their crimson blazers, they come to Capitol Hill 
to raise awareness around many of the key issues facing the African-
American and other communities in this country.
  Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity represents over 150,000 members from all 
50 states, several U.S. territories, and six countries around the 
globe. These distinguished men of achievement are leaders in their 
respected communities, in the boardrooms, classrooms and academia, 
public service, and every field of human endeavor.
  Today, it is with great humility and commitment to improving our 
communities that my brothers in the bond come to Washington for the 
Kappas on Capitol Hill Legislative Policy Conference.
  As I see the brothers in their red blazers walk these hallowed halls, 
bringing their professional expertise, wisdom gained through 
experience, and passion for their communities to Washington, my heart 
beams with pride.
  Mr. Speaker, now, more than ever, we need leaders in our communities 
to raise their voices to raise awareness about the issues that are 
confronting our communities back home. Today, I am proud of my brothers 
in Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Incorporated, for coming to Congress 
today to ensure that we never forget how decisions on issues like 
health care, higher education, job creation, and veteran benefits are 
affecting our communities at home.

                          ____________________



