

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2446]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO BOBI PIKE-OATES

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Bobi 
Pike-Oates of Las Vegas for her service to our country and to the great 
State of Nevada. Bobi Pike-Oates served in the U.S. Air Force for 23 
years, retiring with the rank of senior master sergeant. Now, even in 
retirement, she remains active in various groups and dedicated to 
helping veterans and the community.
  Bobi Pike-Oates traveled the world during her time in the Air Force, 
serving in Hungary for Operation Joint Endeavor and in Turkey for 
Operation Provide Comfort. Being so far from home was, of course, very 
difficult, and we cannot adequately repay Bobi for the sacrifices she 
made in order to serve our country.
  Throughout her time in the Air Force, Bobi earned awards and received 
recognition for going above and beyond in her service. During her time 
at Nevada's own Nellis Air Force Base, Bobi received the Senior 
Noncommissioned Officer of the Year, as well as the Resource Advisor of 
the Year Air Warfare Center.
  Even though she is now retired from the Air Force, Bobi Pike-Oates's 
commitment to serving her country remains just as strong. Currently, 
Bobi serves on various boards, commissions, and associations that help 
our veterans. Bobi is a board member for the Women Veterans of Nevada, 
a life member of the Air Forces Association, a charter member of the 
Women in Military Service for America, Air Force Sergeants Association, 
American Legion, life member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and a 
life member of the Disabled American Veterans. She also serves on the 
State of Nevada Women Veterans Advisory Committee. Through these 
various organizations, Bobi continues to make Nevada proud.
  I am both humbled and honored to acknowledge Bobi Pike-Oates for her 
service to our country. Her sacrifices and continued commitment to 
helping those who served makes me proud, and it is an honor to call her 
a fellow Nevadan. As Nevada's senior Senator, I look forward to seeing 
her continue to inspire others and work to help fellow veterans who, 
like her, make it possible for us to live in the freest nation on 
Earth.

                          ____________________



