

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4778]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mrs. FISHER. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            committee on agriculture, nutrition and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on August 2, 2017 at 5 p.m. to 
conduct a business meeting to report nominations.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold an Executive Session during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, August 2, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 216 of the Hart Senate 
Office Building.


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, August 2, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled, ``FBI Headquarters Consolidation Project--What 
Happened and What's Next.''


          committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, August 2, at 11 a.m. in the President's Room. We will be 
considering the nominations.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, August 2, 2017 at 11 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                     committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, August 2, 2017 at 2 p.m., to hold a 
briefing entitled ``The Authorizations for the Use of Military Force: 
Administration Perspective.''


            committee on small business and entrepreneurship

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate Wednesday, August 2, 2017 off the 
floor at the start of the first vote to conduct a business meeting.


  committee on energy and natural resources subcommittee on water and 
                                 power

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
Water and Power is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate 
in order to hold a hearing on Wednesday, August 2, 2017, at 10 a.m. in 
Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC.


                   subcommittee on western hemisphere

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
August 2, 2017, at 10 a.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``Assessing the 
Colombia Peace Process: The Way Forward in U.S.-Colombia Relations.''

                          ____________________



