

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2677-S2678]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO HENSON MOORE

  Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, Today I wish to honor Congressman Henson 
Moore and recognize his years of service, including his leadership on 
the Battle of New Orleans Bicentennial Commission.
  Raised in Hackberry, LA, Henson moved to Baton Rouge where he 
graduated from Baton Rouge High School and later Louisiana State 
University, LSU. He also received his law degree in 1965 and master's 
degree in 1973 from LSU. Henson honorably served in the Army from 1965 
to 1967 and, in 1974, was elected to Congress where he represented 
Louisiana's Sixth Congressional District for 12 years.
  In 1987, Henson was named commissioner of the Panama Canal 
Consultative Committee by President Reagan. In 1989, he was named 
Deputy Secretary at the Department of Energy and, in 1992, was named 
White House Deputy Chief of Staff for President George H.W. Bush.
  Following his retirement as president and CEO of American Forest and 
Paper Association in 2006, Henson and his wife, Carolyn, returned to 
Baton Rouge.
  Henson's public service and involvement with numerous for-profit and 
nonprofit boards has earned him many noteworthy honors and awards, 
among them the Secretary Gold Medal, U.S. Department of Energy, 
induction into the Louisiana Political Hall of Fame, induction into the 
LSU Alumni Association Hall of Distinction, and the chancellor's 
Sesquicentennial Service Award. More recently, he was honored as the 
2011 LSU Alumnus of the Year. Henson also served as chairman of the 
Forever LSU Campaign, the most successful fundraising effort in the 
university's history, and in 2014 was named chairman of the Battle of 
New Orleans Bicentennial Commission.
  Fought on January 8, 1815, the Battle of New Orleans was the final 
major battle of the War of 1812 and a decisive victory for the United 
States. As chairman of the Bicentennial Commission, Henson planned and 
ran a number of activities throughout the New Orleans area. The 
commission and chairman were all volunteers; they received no money in 
exchange for their work, and there was no State money used for this 
commission. In his address on the bicentennial, Henson joked, ``When 
the Legislature created the Bicentennial Commission, it had the 
foresight to

[[Page S2678]]

provide no money and no staff but a lot of obstruction.'' The 
bicentennial commission was tasked with commemorating a significant 
moment in both U.S. and Louisiana history. Under Henson Moore's 
leadership, that mission was achieved.
  I would like to honor and congratulate Henson for his work on both 
the bicentennial commission and for his service to our country and the 
State of Louisiana.

                          ____________________



