

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4681]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Nomination Hearing'' on Tuesday, August 1, 2017, at 
2:30 p.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, August 1, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``America's 
Affordable Housing Crisis: Challenges and Solutions.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, August 1, 2017 at 11 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


     Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, August 
1, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Reauthorization of 
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act: NOAA and 
Council Perspectives.''


 Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight

  The Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory 
Oversight of the Committee on Environment and Public Works is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on August 1, 2017, 
at 10 a.m. in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to 
conduct a hearing entitled, ``Oversight of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency's Superfund Program.''

                          ____________________



