

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3206]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to honor our brave men and 
women in law enforcement. During National Police Week, we commemorate 
the conviction and compassion they bring to their jobs every day, as 
well as the difficult choices and the sacrifices they make. From 
members of local police departments, to rapid transit officers, to 
court bailiffs, public safety officers risk their lives to keep our 
families and communities safe. That is a fact that we can never forget 
and a reality that confronts public safety officers and their families 
every day. This is a time to reflect on what law enforcement officers 
do for our communities, to thank those who serve us, and to pay special 
recognition to those who have lost their lives in the line of duty.
  It is in that spirit, and with a heavy heart, that I rise to honor 
seven Michigan law enforcement officers who were killed in the line of 
duty in 2016. These men gave everything to their communities, their 
families, the State of Michigan, and their country. Across Michigan, 
our hearts have been shattered by their deaths, and our grief and 
gratitude go out to their families. Let us take one moment to honor 
their lifetimes of service: Myron Jarrett, Police Officer, Detroit 
Police Department; Ronald Kienzle, Court Officer, Berrien County Trial 
Court; Kevin Miller, Sergeant, Detroit Police Department; Collin Rose, 
Wayne State University Police Department; Kenneth Steil, Sergeant, 
Detroit Police Department; Michael Winter, Posse Deputy, Branch County 
Sheriff's Office; and Joseph Zangaro, Security Supervisor, Berrien 
County Trial Court.
  The deaths of these officers were only some of the devastating 
tragedies that have shaken communities in Michigan and across this 
country. In these difficult times, we must always acknowledge each 
other's sacrifices, walk in one another's shoes, and feel the 
compassion in each other's hearts. This is what our law enforcement 
officers strive to do for us, and what we can do for them. During 
National Police Week and every day, we must continue to support our law 
enforcement officers, and we must work to ensure that they and their 
communities have the resources they need to live safely and serve the 
highest ideals of this Nation.

                          ____________________



