

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2521]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     RECOGNIZING GARBAGE TO GARDEN

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the work of 
Tyler Frank and his award-winning company Garbage to Garden--a curbside 
composting service that was founded in Portland, ME. In August 2012, 
Tyler Frank was living in Portland and wanted to start a compost pile, 
but didn't have the space in his urban surroundings. He and his 
roommates wondered why they couldn't put compost out on the curb like 
they do with their trash and recycling, and with that, Garbage to 
Garden was born. Tyler set up a table on Congress Street during a First 
Friday Artwalk, and by the end of the day, 17 Portland residents had 
signed on to his curbside composting service. Today one in seven 
Portland households participates in Garbage to Garden. Tyler and his 
partners have expanded their service to eight other Maine communities 
and three communities in Massachusetts.
  Tyler was able to create a unique and effective composting company, 
and with more than 8,000 households, schools, restaurants, and 
businesses using their services, they are the most successful curbside 
composting company in the country. Tyler has created a sustainable and 
local experience. Food scraps are composted by Benson Farms in Gorham, 
and all food waste can be incorporated into Garbage to Garden's 
compost, due to the high-heat process they use. Garbage to Garden also 
collects used cooking oil, and Maine Standard Biofuels turns it into 
biofuel and soap, which is then used to wash the composting buckets. 
Using clean composting buckets is a key part of Garbage to Garden's 
process, eliminating the ``ick factor'' that turns many people off from 
composting. Garbage to Garden even offers free service to those who 
volunteer for the company or for one of their partner organizations. 
Every day, Garbage to Garden diverts 20 tons of food scraps from 
landfills, and over a 3-year period, the average household will divert 
1 ton of food waste from landfills.
  Garbage to Garden is a shining example of what can happen when you 
have a little determination, a great idea, and passion to make a 
difference. Tyler is an excellent example of a hard-working Mainer who 
is making a difference in our State and beyond. I look forward to 
following the company's continued growth and remarkable service to 
Maine communities. Thank you, Tyler, for all you have already done for 
the greater Portland community and our great State of Maine. We are 
lucky to have people like you working to better our 
communities.

                          ____________________



