

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4867]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     SALUTING THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA ON ITS HISTORIC ASIAN TOUR

  (Mr. EVANS asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to support the Philadelphia 
Orchestra on a historical tour through Asia.
  I have had the privilege of working to support them over the years 
during my time in the Pennsylvania Legislature and now here in 
Congress. I can't think of a better cultural ambassador for our 
country, the Commonwealth, and our great city than the finely tuned 
Philadelphia Orchestra.
  The historical tour started in Shanghai, China, where they serenaded 
the visitors of the new Shanghai Disney Resort. They continued on to 
Beijing and Mongolia.
  Philadelphia's magnificent orchestra marked a historical first when 
they became the first Western orchestra to play at the people-to-people 
exchange. The President of Mongolia and I met last year in the city of 
Philadelphia.
  The orchestra then continued on to Seoul and to Hong Kong. In Seoul, 
the orchestra participated in a master class with the Heart to Heart 
Orchestra and Korea United College Orchestra. In Hong Kong, the 
Philadelphia Orchestra concluded with a coaching session for the Hong 
Kong Youth Orchestra and a well-earned reception.
  I would like to give special recognition to the Philadelphia 
Orchestra's director, the chairman, as well as the woman who brought it 
all together, Allison Vulgamore.
  I am proud to represent a city that boasts some of the most iconic 
music heard around the world. I welcome back our well-traveled 
Philadelphia Orchestra and look forward to the next symphony.

                          ____________________



