

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3645]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    REMEMBERING JOHN BERLIN McCANTS

 Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to 
recognize and honor the life of a dear friend and a true American hero, 
Mr. John Berlin McCants of Goose Creek, SC.
  He served around the world in the U.S. Army for 22 years before 
retiring in 1975 and settling in Goose Creek with his wife and 
children. In 1992, he was elected to a seat on the Goose Creek City 
Council where he served for an outstanding 24 years. John was a 
lifetime leader with a compassionate spirit. He dedicated so much of 
his life helping those who cannot help themselves. For that, he will be 
remembered not only as a devoted public servant , but also an 
inspiration to so many people around South Carolina.
  I can tell you that he certainly had a positive impact on my life. 
John was my political mentor. He taught me the ABCs of being an 
effective leader and a public servant who remains committed to the 
greater good of our State and country.
  The A stands for personal accountability. John taught me that, as a 
Member, I should always be accountable for my decisions and choices. B 
is for backbone. John once told me that we seldom find that Members 
have backbones, and that it is critical for me to use it when 
necessary, to stand up for what is right. C is for common sense. He 
taught me that it is important to not let fear and political ideology 
deter me from common sense. These great lessons stick with me everyday 
as I walk the halls of the U.S. Capitol and make decisions on behalf of 
South Carolina and the entire Nation.
  Simply put, John was a great person and a mentor to many; I am 
thankful to have known him. He truly did represent the very best of our 
State. To Christina, his wife, and their wonderful family, John is 
forever in our hearts, and I would like to add his legacy to our June 
20, 2017, Congressional Record.

                          ____________________



