

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3645-S3646]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING FRANK McCAULEY

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor an American 
hero.
  Frank McCauley passed away last week peacefully in Hamilton, MT. 
Frank was the oldest living fighter pilot ace from World War II.
  He originally joined the Army at the beginning of America's entry 
into the war, but quickly then turned to the Air Force where he 
discovered his passion and skill as one of our Nation's first fighter 
pilots.
  Frank flew his P-47 fighter ``Rat Racer'' on 46 missions while 
supporting B-17 bombers in the European Theatre, and he is credited 
with shooting down five and a half Nazi aircrafts. For this he received 
a Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross, and four Air Medals.
  In 2015, Frank and his family were flown to Washington, DC, and he 
was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian honor 
that Congress can bestow on an individual for his service during World 
War II.
  After leaving the Air Force, Frank had three sons--Craig, Kirk, and 
Kevin--and he built a life on the west coast with a successful career 
in the construction business. In 1974, Frank retired, married the love 
of his life, Bobbie, and moved to the Bitterroot Valley in western 
Montana.
  It was in Montana where Frank and Bobbie enjoyed their retirement 
years by traveling in their motor home and organizing numerous parties 
for their friends, family, and neighbors.

[[Page S3646]]

  Frank McCauley embodies the Greatest Generation, and he is a symbol 
for the American dream.
  He is survived by his wife, Bobbie McCauley; sons, Craig, Kirk, and 
Kevin; stepdaughter, Nancy Cook; and numerous grandchildren, great-
grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren.
  To ensure Frank's life story is preserved and to honor the 
contributions he has made to our country, I am proud to enshrine his 
story in the Congressional Record.

                          ____________________



