

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3346-S3347]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RUSSIA AND IRAN SANCTIONS LEGISLATION

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, Senators from both parties are 
negotiating the content of an amendment to the bill for tough, 
bipartisan Russia sanctions legislation.
  On the Democratic side, we feel very strongly that we need a tough, 
effective package of Russia sanctions to move alongside Iran sanctions. 
I believe many of my Republican colleagues do, as well, so there is 
very likely an agreement to be reached.
  President Putin has violated the sovereignty of Ukraine by annexing 
Crimea. He has committed human rights abuses, including the propping up 
of the brutal Assad regime in Syria, of stifling political dissent and 
the rights of his own people, and our intelligence community has 
concluded that Russia made a direct assault on our democracy by 
conducting a campaign to interfere in our elections.
  That is why, principally, I proposed a vote on a bill put forward by 
my friend, the Republican Senator from South Carolina, Senator Graham. 
This is a bill that includes as its cosponsors Senators McCain and 
Rubio on the Republican side and Senators Cardin, Brown, and McCaskill 
on the Democratic side. It is a strong bipartisan bill.
  The bill would establish a process for Congress to review any Russia-
related sanctions relief. The President and administration officials 
have demonstrated they are willing to consider lifting sanctions on 
Russia in exchange for vague, yet-to-be-articulated concessions, if any 
concessions at all. Congress ought to have the power to review any 
decision made by this administration before sanctions on Russia are 
lifted.
  Senator McCain has also introduced an amendment, along with Senator 
Cardin, which would impose new sanctions on Russia. Given the 
revelations of Russian interference in our elections, new sanctions are 
warranted in addition to the existing sanctions. In addition to the 
Graham-Cardin bill,

[[Page S3347]]

which should definitely be included, I hope Senator McCain's proposal 
is part of our consideration of Russia-related sanctions as well.
  Chairman Corker, Chairman Crapo, Ranking Member Brown, and Ranking 
Member Cardin are in ongoing discussions, as are the majority leader 
and I, about the content of the Russia sanctions and amendment. I am 
hopeful that we can resolve this issue and vote to advance both 
measures.

                          ____________________



