

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4431]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING FLAT ROCK MIDDLE SCHOOL

  (Mr. FERGUSON asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the hard work of 
the students and faculty at Flat Rock Middle School in Tyrone, Georgia.
  Four years ago, Dr. Monica Reckley decided to found a STEM program at 
Flat Rock to give her students more than just a traditional classroom 
experience. She hoped to show them how science, technology, math, and 
engineering could lead to future careers.
  Today, the program has 150 students spread over 6th, 7th, and 8th 
grades, and it is helping students develop an interest that could lead 
them to new professional opportunities. The program introduces students 
to STEM, brings in speakers from these fields, and allows students to 
participate in related competitions.
  Last month, 10 students from the program participated in the Georgia 
Tech InVenture Challenge and had several inventions showcased. These 
inventions included a bulletproof vest designed specifically for female 
police officers, a wireless vital signs monitoring device for elderly 
patients, a dental floss guard to make flossing easier, and an 
extension cord and power outlet combination that reduces the number of 
electrical outlets needed in a home.
  I am so proud of these students and the opportunities this school 
district has provided to encourage young people to explore careers in 
the 21st century.
  I am a proud supporter of career and technical education programs 
because they prepare students and young people for work and careers in 
the modern workforce.

                          ____________________



