

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4606]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2017, at 
9:30 a.m., in 328A Russell Senate Office Building, in order to conduct 
a hearing entitled ``To consider the following nominations: Rostin 
Behnam, Brian D. Quintenz, and Dawn DeBerry Stump, to be Commissioners 
at the CFTC.''


            COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING AND URBAN AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2017 at 
9:45 a.m. to conduct an executive session to vote on nominations.


                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATION

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
business meeting.


                       COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on July 27, 2017, at 9 a.m., in room SH-216 of 
the Hart Senate Office Building, to continue a hearing entitled 
``Oversight of the Foreign Agents Registration Act and Attempts to 
Influence U.S. Elections: Lessons Learned from Current and Prior 
Administrations.''


                       COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, July 27, 2017 from 10 a.m. in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a Closed Member Markup.

                          ____________________



