

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3137]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                       TRIBUTE TO RUSSELL GORDON

 Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is an honor to join the 
community of music lovers in New Mexico to recognize Mr. Russell Gordon 
in his final year of presenting the Los Alamos County Summer Concert 
Series.
  For 28 years, the concert series has been a pillar of the community 
in northern New Mexico, bringing together families, neighbors, and 
friends with local, national, and internationally renowned musicians.
  In 1988, Russell and his wife, Deborah, moved to White Rock, NM, 
where they started Gordon's CDs, Tapes and Records.
  Local musicians remember playing on the sidewalk outside of his shop 
when Russell began the series in 1990. Today the series is a much 
larger affair with hundreds gathering around the historic Ashley Pond 
and other venues in Los Alamos on Friday evenings to begin their 
weekend with art, culture, and dance.
  Russell Gordon's passion for music shines through the variety of 
genres featured, including Spanish, Native American, big band, 
bluegrass, classical, country music, folk, gospel, rock, jazz, and 
international acts. Russell has kept local New Mexican artists in his 
line-up over the years and helped grow and mentor the music scene 
throughout the State. He has inspired young musicians, expanded 
horizons, and has created countless memories for musicians and concert-
goers in New Mexico.
  As the ranking member on the Joint Economic Committee, I am proud to 
recognize the contributions of local small business owners like Russell 
and Deborah Gordon. We wish them the best of luck in their future 
endeavors and thank them for their contributions to the 
community.

                          ____________________



