

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2499]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ISSUES BEFORE THE SENATE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday, the Senate confirmed former 
Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue to lead the Department of Agriculture.
  We also took the next step in advancing Rod Rosenstein to serve as 
Deputy Attorney General. I look forward to confirming Mr. Rosenstein so 
he can get to work without further delay.
  After we take that vote, we will be able to advance the Department of 
Labor nominee, Alexander Acosta. Mr. Acosta has an impressive 
background that will serve him well as he leads the Department on 
issues that can support America's employers and employees as well as 
the overall economy.
  I am pleased Mr. Acosta has outlined his commitment to ensuring that 
the Department of Labor encourages, rather than hampers, job growth--a 
welcome change after 8 years of job-killing and opportunity-destroying 
rules and regulations under the Obama administration. I encourage my 
colleagues to support his nomination so he can begin this important 
work to help create jobs, enhance workforce development, and support 
middle-class workers.
  As we advance these nominees, Senators are also continuing 
discussions on government funding legislation. These talks have been 
part of a bipartisan, bicameral process from the start, with 
appropriators having continued negotiations over the State work period. 
I look forward to more productive conversations with Senators, our 
House colleagues, and the White House so we can get this important work 
done quite soon.

                          ____________________



