

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4862-H4863]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF EDWARD PLATH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, the motto of the United States Coast 
Guard is Semper Paratus--``Always Ready''--and throughout its history, 
the members of our Coast Guard have stood ready to protect our homeland 
from all threats. I rise today to recognize the important work of our 
Coast Guard as well as its members throughout history, including those 
like Edward Plath.
  Edward, like so many Americans of his day, answered the call to 
service at the onset of World War II. Despite being turned down by the 
Army over medical concerns, he soon joined the Coast Guard and served 
honorably in New Jersey, protecting the region's coastline and its 
vital ports from the ever-present danger of Nazi attack.
  But for Edward, the Coast Guard during the war meant more than just 
duty

[[Page H4863]]

to country. It was on a blind date with a fellow sailor that he met the 
woman he said he would marry. A year later, they married, and for over 
six decades Edward and his wife lived as a loving couple and raised 
three daughters, including my constituent, Elizabeth Donaldson.
  Mr. Plath passed away in 2010, just a couple months after his wife. 
But on May 17 of this year, he was buried at sea with full military 
honors off the coast where he served in New Jersey.
  I am grateful for Mr. Plath's service to our Nation, and I am proud 
our team in Bucks County could assist his daughter in honoring his 
final wish.
  Mr. Speaker, we owe a debt of gratitude to Edward Plath and to all 
those who serve and continue to serve, and we must always be ready to 
support them in any way we can, consistent with the motto of the U.S. 
Coast Guard.

                          ____________________



