

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2905]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PROMISE TO DRAIN THE SWAMP AND 100 DAYS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Kaptur) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, we are quickly approaching President Trump's 
first 100 days in office, and the swamp he pledged to drain now has 
been stocked with Wall Street's finest.
  President Trump made a big jobs promise to working people across this 
country in his campaign. But hundreds of steel workers in places like 
Lorain, Ohio, are being terminated due to continuing Korean and Chinese 
imports being dumped into this marketplace.
  The President seems to have a raft of bankers from Goldman Sachs 
advising him on the global economy, but where is his trade team that is 
supposed to protect workers like I represent in the State of Ohio?
  This is the backdrop to the 2018 budget the President has chosen to 
send up to Congress. His 2018 budget rewards Wall Street--anybody 
surprised--and hurts Main Streets in places like Lorain and Ohio and 
Pennsylvania and Michigan and Indiana and Wisconsin, the States that 
carried him into the Presidency.
  Vice President Joe Biden once said: ``Show me your budget, and I will 
tell you what you value.''
  Well, President Trump's budget apparently doesn't value the people of 
the Great Lakes States because it zeros out the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and other programs under the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency that 
are trying to help us clean up water, the source of all life.
  Look what he is doing to job training programs, to Meals on Wheels, 
to afterschool care, programs that the middle class cares about and are 
vital to life: slash, slash, slash. More bankers in there from Goldman 
Sachs and Wall Street.
  To make matters worse, the Trump administration has a total disregard 
for ethics, as they clearly violate the Emoluments Clause of our 
Constitution.
  President Trump and his children have still failed to fully divest 
their assets and put them in true blind trusts to prevent real and 
dangerous conflicts of interest.
  How about the number of patents that China has just granted to the 
Trump family, including Ivanka Trump? How about that? When the 
President has changed his position on China from what he said in the 
campaign and now it is a little bit different and the patents just got 
approved after sitting on the shelf for a decade, does that strike 
anyone as unusual?
  The Trump administration is not draining the swamp. This President is 
filling it with broken promises to the American people who are 
depending on him and his administration to make a difference for people 
who need attention across this country.

                          ____________________



