

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6149-H6150]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING LENAPE VALLEY FOUNDATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, for over a half century, the Lenape 
Valley Foundation has provided assistance, compassion, and hope to 
thousands of children, adults, and families within my district. They 
offer services related to mental health, substance abuse, intellectual 
disability, and early intervention.
  I was pleased to meet with community leaders and volunteers during 
the groundbreaking ceremony at The Lodge at Lenape Valley Foundation, a 
new construction on the campus of Lower Bucks Hospital.
  The new facility will provide more outpatient mental health services, 
including individual group and family therapy, an improved crisis call 
center, an improved crisis walk-in center, peer support, and Bucks 
County's only Crisis Residential Program.
  I am thankful for the leadership of the Lenape Valley executive team: 
Alan Hartl, Walter Wolaniuk, Sharon Curran, Philip Braun, JoAnne Davis, 
Mary Dubyk, Mary Jane Fletcher, Traci Gorman, Angela Jacobsen, Marjorie 
Morgan, and Mary Ann Venezia, as well as board president, Robert 
Rogala; vice president, Lisa Bodine; secretary, Helene Cevasco Mathern; 
treasurer, Mark Strasburg; and all the board of directors.
  I am proud to work with an organization which recognizes that 
everyone can grow and progress toward personal fulfillment, and we are 
proud to stand by their side.


                  Honoring United Way of Bucks County

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, the United Way of Bucks County is 
dedicated to improving the lives through the caring power of 
communities. We all have a stake in making our communities healthy and 
prosperous. The United Way of Bucks County is committed to working 
together, advancing the common good, and creating a better life for 
all.


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  July 24, 2017, on page H6149, the following appeared: HONORING 
UNITED WAY OF BUCKS COUNTY Mr. FITZPATRICIK. Mr. Speaker,
  
  The online version has been corrected to read: HONORING UNITED 
WAY OF BUCKS COUNTY Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

  The United Way works in close collaboration with diverse partners in 
Bucks County. From schools, government agencies, community 
corporations, neighborhood associations, the faith community, and 
volunteers, the United Way brings together passion, resources, and 
expertise to get things done in Bucks County.
  Although there are about 1,300 United Way chapters nationally, each 
chapter shapes its own identity, holding firm

[[Page H6150]]

that everyone deserves a good life through quality education, stable 
employment, supportive income, and good health.

  I am very proud to work with Bucks County's team at the United Way: 
Marissa Christie, Faith Parkinson, Patricia Winslow Gallagher, Matt 
Uhler, Danielle Bush, Tim Philpot, Candi Guerrero, Katie Matarazzo, Dan 
Warvolis, and Pat Miller.
  Mr. Speaker, these problem-solvers are making an impact on improving 
lives and making Bucks County a more prosperous community, and for 
that, they are deserving of all of our thanks and support.

                          ____________________



