

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3326]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          TRIBUTE TO BETTY FOX

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Betty Fox 
and not only wish her a happy birthday, but also reflect on her years 
of service. Betty Fox served her country in the Armed Forces and 
remains an active leader in the community. On April 22, Betty Fox 
turned 98 years old, and to this day, she makes us proud to call her a 
fellow Nevadan and American.
  Betty Fox joined the Marine Corps in April 1943 shortly after the 
beginning of World War II. She was stationed at the Marine Corps Air 
Station, MCAS, located in Cherry Point, NC. She was then sent to the 
MCAS in El Toro, CA, there she received the Honorable Service Lapel 
Button marking her outstanding service to her country. Betty Fox was 
promoted to private first class on August 20, 1943, then to corporal on 
January 24, 1944. She was discharged on February 5, 1944, but her 
promotions and designations reflect on her service and our country will 
never be able to fully repay her for the sacrifices she made in the 
defense of freedom.
  In 1956, she moved to Las Vegas, NV, and has been a Nevadan ever 
since. Despite no longer being Active military personnel, Betty Fox 
remains involved in the local community. She epitomizes an age-old 
saying: ``You are only as old as you feel.''
  Betty Fox volunteered at the Las Vegas convention center for the past 
18 years. She is an active, lifetime member of the Marine Corps League, 
Local Detachment 186, and has marched in several Veteran's Day parades 
in order to honor those who, like her, sacrificed to defend America and 
its values.
  Betty is also a lifetime member of Women Marine Association, WMA, and 
was an active member until the local chapter disbanded. After years of 
serving her country and community, she volunteered her time at the 
local senior living center, brightening the day of many of Nevada's 
senior citizens.
  I am both humbled and honored to acknowledge Betty Fox for her 
service to our country and community. Her sacrifices and continued 
commitment to helping those who served makes me proud to call her a 
fellow Nevadan. As Nevada's senior Senator, I want to honor her 
success, her life of giving back, and wish her the happiest 98th 
birthday. Rest assured, we all look forward to her continued efforts 
that are sure to inspire us all.

                          ____________________



