

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3645]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING HAROLD HAUGLAND

 Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life and 
legacy of a brave Montanan and American, Harold Haugland.
  Harold's story begins in Glendive, MT, where he was born in 1928 to 
Peter and Alma Haugland. Harold and his family were well known in the 
community for their compassionate hearts and unrelenting work ethic. 
Harold took these Montana values to the U.S. Army in 1949, where he 
quickly became a highly decorated soldier, receiving a number of medals 
and citations.
  In late November 1950, Harold joined the Company D, 15th antiaircraft 
Artillery Battalion, 7th Infantry Division.
  Two thousand five hundred U.S. and 700 South Korean soldiers were 
deployed east of the Chosin Reservoir in North Korea when they were 
engaged by an overwhelming number of Chinese forces. By early December, 
the U.S. Army evacuated approximately 1,500 wounded servicemembers; the 
remaining soldiers had been either captured or killed in enemy 
territory.
  Because Harold could not be accounted for by his unit at the end of 
the battle, he was reported missing in action as of December 2, 1950. 
Harold's name did not appear on any prisoner of war lists, and no 
returning soldiers reported him as a prisoner of war. The U.S. Army 
declared him deceased as of December 31, 1953.
  In 1954, a number of remains were recovered from north of the Korean 
Demilitarized Zone. However, Harold's remains were not included and he 
was declared nonrecoverable. After his death, Harold was awarded the 
Distinguished Service Cross for his heroism and leadership.
  During a joint recovery operation in 2004, Harold's remains were 
found in a mass grave on the eastern bank of the Chosin Reservoir in 
North Korea. Thanks to recent technological advancements in forensic 
science, the U.S. Department of Defense positively identified one of 
the individuals as Harold Haugland. After nearly 66 years, an American 
hero has been brought home to Montana for a full and proper military 
burial.
  Harold represents the very best that this Nation has to offer with 
his profound bravery and dedication to service. Like many before him 
and after him, Harold paid the ultimate sacrifice to protect the 
freedoms that make the United States the greatest Nation in the world.
  To Harold and his family, on behalf of myself, Montana, and a 
grateful nation, I extend our deepest thanks for Harold's service, 
sacrifice, and valor.

                          ____________________



