

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3253-S3254]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS ACCOUNTABILITY AND WHISTLEBLOWER 
                            PROTECTION BILL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Now, Mr. President, on another matter, like those who 
have called for relief from ObamaCare, many Americans across the Nation 
are counting on us to ensure better quality healthcare for our 
veterans. This is a critical issue for each of us no matter what State 
we come from, no matter what party we represent. Our veterans have 
sacrificed too much. In return, they deserve our support. We must keep 
the commitment we have to them when it comes to ensuring that the VA is 
providing the quality healthcare they rely on.
  Unfortunately, as we all know, many VA facilities across the Nation 
have long failed to provide our Nation's heroes with the timely and 
effective medical attention they need. Already, Congress has taken a 
number of steps to improve these facilities for our veterans and to 
keep the faith for those

[[Page S3254]]

who have willingly and courageously fought on our behalf.
  Now we can build on those efforts by passing the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. As 
the name implies, this legislation will enhance accountability measures 
at the VA and better enable the Department to remove--to remove--
employees who are failing to meet the standards expected of them.
  This bill, in conjunction with the continued administration efforts 
like those Secretary Shulkin announced yesterday, will further improve 
medical services offered to our veterans at VA facilities all across 
our country. It was unfortunate to see this legislation held up in a 
previous Congress, but I am proud that the Republican Senate has made 
its passage among our top priorities.
  I once again recognize Veterans' Affairs Committee chairman Johnny 
Isakson and Senator Rubio for the part they played in moving this very 
important bill forward and remaining vigilant on behalf of America's 
veterans. I know we are all eager to advance it today and send it on 
down to the White House for the President's signature.

                          ____________________



