

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3047-S3048]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mrs. ERNST. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
majority and minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 18, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in open 
session to consider nominations.


            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, May 18, 2017 at 10 
a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled ``Domestic and International Policy 
Update.''


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold an Executive Session during the session of the Senate on 
Thursday, May 18, 2017, at 10 a.m. in Room 216 of the Hart Senate 
Office Building.


               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate in order to hold a hearing on 
Thursday, May 18, 2017, at 10:15 a.m. in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building in Washington, DC. The purpose of the hearing is to 
consider the nomination of Mr. David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be 
Deputy Secretary of the Interior.


                          Committee on Finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, May 18, 2017, at 10:30 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider favorably reporting the Creating 
High-Quality Results and Outcomes Necessary to Improve Chronic 
(CHRONIC) Care Act of 2017.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, May 18, 2017 at 9:30 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on May 18, 2017, at 10 a.m., in SD-226 of the 
Dirksen Senate

[[Page S3048]]

Office Building, to conduct an executive business meeting.

                          ____________________



