

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3503-S3504]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


            COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017 at 
2:15 p.m. to conduct an executive session to vote on the following 
nominations: Mr. Kevin Allen Hassett, to be Chairman of the Council of 
Economic Advisers; and the Honorable Pamela Hughes Patenaude, to be 
Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.


           COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 
14, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.
  The Committee will hold a Hearing on ``Paving the Way for Self-
Driving Vehicles.''


               COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled, ``Legislative Hearing on S. 517, the Consumer and 
Fuel Retailer Choice Act.''


                          COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider favorably reporting pending 
nominations.


        COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 
14, 2017, at 10 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing titled ``Ideology 
and Terror: Understanding the Tools, Tactics, and Techniques of Violent 
Extremism.''


                       COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on June 14, 2017, at 9:45 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Nominations.''


            COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to

[[Page S3504]]

meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017 at 3 
p.m. in 428A Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Tax Reform: Removing Barriers to Small Business Growth.''


                     COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' AFFAIRS

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in SR-
418, to conduct a hearing on the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget for Veterans' 
Programs and Fiscal Year 2019 Advance Appropriations Requests.


                           COMMITTEE ON AGING

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 14, 2017, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Military Caregivers: Families Serving for the Long Run.'' 
The Committee will meet in room 106 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building beginning at 2:30 p.m.


  COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER AND 
                                 POWER

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
Water and Power is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate 
in order to hold a hearing on Wednesday, June 14, 2017, at 2 p.m. in 
Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.


         COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE ON EUROPE

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Europe is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 
14, 2017 at 2:30 p.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``Southeast Europe: 
Strengthening Democracy and Countering Malign Foreign Influence.''

                          ____________________



