

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4228]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. McHenry) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning in recognition of 
National Police Week and in honor of National Peace Officers Memorial 
Day, which was this past Monday. National Police Week was established 
by President Kennedy in 1962, as a day for Americans to remember police 
officers who lost their lives in the line of duty over the previous 
year.
  This year's Peace Officers Memorial Day was especially somber in my 
district in western North Carolina as it was the first time since 
Shelby police officer Tim Brackeen was killed.
  Officer Brackeen was a dedicated law enforcement officer who began 
his career with the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office and later joined 
the Shelby Police Department where, in 2012, he was honored as the 
officer of the year.
  Last September, Officer Brackeen was working with his canine partner 
Ciko when he was killed in the line of duty, leaving behind his young 
wife and his 4-year-old daughter.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember Officer Brackeen and all of the 
officers throughout our country who serve us so diligently every day 
who lost their lives serving our communities. It is really important 
for us as Americans to thank those who put themselves in harm's way so 
we may live peaceful lives for our own benefit and for the benefit of 
our communities.
  Our men and women in blue put their lives on the line each and every 
day to keep us safe. When shots are fired, they run toward the sound of 
the gun while others are running away. I thank them for their dedicated 
service, and I pray each day for their continued safety.

                          ____________________



