

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4665]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL DANIEL S. ARTINO

  Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to commend LTC Daniel S. 
Artino for his dedication to duty and service as an Army legislative 
fellow and congressional budget liaison for the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army. Dan was recently selected to command an Apache battalion and 
will soon depart for Fort Bliss, TX.
  A native of Stow, OH, Dan was commissioned as an aviation officer 
after his graduation from the U.S. Military Academy, where he earned a 
bachelor of science degree in international relations. He also earned a 
master's degree in legislative affairs from George Washington 
University.
  Dan has served in a broad range of assignments during his Army 
career. He has led troops as an attack platoon leader, a headquarters 
company commander, and as the commander of an attack reconnaissance 
company flying Apache helicopters. He has served overseas in Germany 
and deployed several times into combat in support of operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Dan's leadership has been felt from the platoon to the 
brigade level.
  In 2015, Dan was selected to be an Army congressional fellow, and my 
office was fortunate to host him. For the next year, Dan served the 
State of Mississippi and the Nation admirably. In his subsequent role 
as congressional budget liaison, Dan ensured the Army's budget 
positions were well represented to the Senate and House Committees on 
Appropriations.
  I have enjoyed the benefit of Dan's counsel over the past 3 years. It 
is a pleasure to recognize and commend Dan for his service to this 
country and to wish him and his wife, Cathy, all the best as they 
continue their journey in the U.S. Army.

                          ____________________



