

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2609-S2610]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               OHIO HIGH SCHOOL ARMED SERVICE ENLISTMENT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I wish to honor 374 high school seniors 
in eight northeast Ohio counties for their decision to enlist in the 
U.S. Armed Forces. Of these 374 seniors from 118 high schools in 98 
towns and cities, 86 will enter the Army, 98 will enter the Marine 
Corps, 55 will enter the Navy, 26 will enter the Air Force, 3 will 
enter the Coast Guard, 95 will enter our Ohio Army National Guard, and 
11 will enter the Ohio Air National Guard. In the presence of their 
parents/guardians, high school counselors, military leaders, and city 
and business leaders, all 374 will be recognized on May 10, 2017, at 
the Northeast Ohio Foundation for Patriotism ``Our Community Salutes'' 
event.
  In a few short weeks, these young men and women will join with many 
of their classmates in celebration of their high school graduation. At 
a time when many of their peers are looking forward to pursuing 
vocational training or college degrees or are uncertain about their 
future, these young men

[[Page S2610]]

and women instead have chosen to dedicate themselves to military 
service in defense of our rights, our freedoms, and our country. They 
should know that they have the full support of this Senate Chamber and 
the American people, who are with them in whatever challenges may lie 
ahead.
  It is thanks to their dedication and the dedication of an untold 
number of patriots just like them that we are able to meet here today 
in the U.S. Senate and openly debate the best solutions to the problems 
that confront our country. It is thanks to their sacrifices that the 
United States of America remains a beacon of hope and freedom in a 
dangerous world. We are grateful to them, and we are grateful to their 
parents and their communities for instilling in them not only the 
mental and physical abilities our Armed Forces require, but also the 
character, the values, and the discipline that leads someone to put 
service to our Nation over self.
  I would like to personally thank these 374 graduating seniors for 
volunteering to risk their lives in defense of our Nation. We owe them, 
along with all those who serve our country, a deep debt of gratitude.
  I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record the names of 
the 374 high school seniors.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:


                         united states army--86

       Allan-Berea; Anderson-Medina; Ashford-Maple Heights; 
     Barnes-Cleveland; Bartoe-Medina; Bonzcek-Fairport Harbor; 
     Brogan-Brunswick; Brown-Eastlake; Burhoe-Fairlawn; Carey-
     Cleveland; Cawrse-Mentor; Clark-Warrensville Heights; 
     Clements-Maple Heights; Copen-Cleveland; Dachtler-Parma; 
     Daugherty-Madison; Davis E.-North Royalton; Davis T.-Mentor; 
     DeGeorge-Mentor; Dohar-Strongsville; Dolan-Willoughby Hills; 
     Dorsey-Akron; Dunn-Maple Heights; Eakin-Tallmadge; Flanders-
     Akron; Frazier-Lorain; Gamble-Euclid; Gatrell-Lorain; 
     Grissom-LaGrange; Hagan-Perry; Hayes T.-Euclid; Hayes E.-
     Strongsville; Hochenberry-Brook Park; Horvat-Medina; Jackson-
     North Ridgeville; Johnson-Hudson; Karl-Elyria; Kelly-North 
     Ridgeville; Kincer-Amherst; Kline-Rootstown; Kurtz-Elyria; 
     Lebron-Lorain; Lee-Conneaut; Lin-Lakewood; Major-Tallmadge.
       Marthe-Mentor; Martin-Cleveland; McCraw-Cuyahoga Falls; 
     McVay-Akron; Mooney-Eastlake; Morales Rubio-Cleveland; 
     Motsinger-Strongsville; Nagy-Wickliffe; Nelson-Elyria; Oyola-
     Lorain; Patterson-Euclid; Plymel-Mentor On The Lake; Reeves-
     Garfield Heights; Reid-Elyria; Ripley-North Ridgeville; 
     Rodriguez-Lorain; Rohlman-Wogaman-Akron; Ryman-North Olmsted; 
     Sikora-Parma; Smith-Medina; Sokolowski-Medina; Solon-
     Streetsboro; Stillisano-Wickliffe; Surovey-Wellington; Szabo-
     Olmsted Falls; Taveras Smith-Euclid; Vance-Olmsted Falls; 
     Volak-Lorain; Walker-Perry; Washko-Hinckley; Webb-Medina; 
     White-Maple Heights; Whitelaw-Reminderville; Wilfong-
     Garrettsville; Wilkinson-Medina; Williams-Medina; Wilson-
     Cleveland; Workman-Ravenna; Wright-Cuyahoga Falls; Zalek-
     Sheffield Lake; Zaranko-Medina.


                      united states air force--26

       Bibby-Brecksville; Brezovsky-North Ridgeville; Caraballo-
     Brooklyn; Cottingham-Olmsted Falls; Cummings-Akron; 
     Dominguez-Cleveland; Evans, II-Akron; Freed-Brook Park; 
     Genovese-Akron; Griffith-Ravenna; Hamilton-Bay Village; 
     Hicks-Brook Park; Hocker-South Euclid; Jones-Akron; Kerr-
     LaGrange; Maximovich-North Olmsted; Patton-Elyria; Pritts-
     Mogadore; Robinson-Akron; Ryder-Strongsville; Sandoval-
     Chagrin Falls; Schillero-Garfield Heights; Swatson-Akron; 
     Waites-Lakewood; Williams-Akron; Williams-Kipton.


                      ohio air national guard--11

       Aguiar-Medina; Alston-Amherst; Brittian-Richmond Heights; 
     Burton-Ashland; Chappell-Brunswick; Delzoppo-Eastlake; 
     Fassnacht-Warren; Pauly-Ashland; Reik-Eastlake; Tector-
     Medina; Winterfield-Oak Harbor.


                      ohio army national guard--95

       Anderson-Cleveland; Ashdown-Willowick; Asian-Mayfield 
     Heights; Bailey-Kent; Bailey-Elyria; Bailosky-Elyria; Baxter-
     Akron; Becerra-Cleveland; Bertrand-Conneaut; Blevins-Elyria; 
     Bowens-Lorain; Boyes-Ravenna; Brosky-Lorain; Burkhard-
     Barberton; Cacho-Cleveland; Clements-Brook Park; Cornier-
     Akron; Cooper-Ashtabula; Deets-Highland Heights; Doepel-
     Mogadore; Earlenbaugh-Peninsula; Elliott-Painesville; Ewart-
     Lodi; Felix-Euclid; Ferguson-Akron; Fields-Akron; Figueroa-
     Akron; Flemister I.-Bedford; Flemister J.-Bedford; Fohner-
     Cuyahoga Falls; Garrison-Medina; Gerlach-Avon Lake; Gibbs-
     Stow; Gilbreath-Wadsworth; Glaze-Akron; Grimm-Barberton; 
     Harrison-Barberton; Hoover-Hiram; Hoyle-Akron; Huffriagle-
     Mayfield Heights; Jackson-Euclid; Jones-Akron; Kelly-
     Twinsburg; Keown-Mogadore; Klinehamer-Bratenahl; Koloda-
     Medina; Lane-Grafton; Layne-Doylestown; Lebron -Lorain; Lero-
     Munroe Falls.
       Lietke-Uniontown; Light-Parma Heights; Lockhart-Cleveland; 
     Loparo-Wadsworth; Lutkus-Cuyahoga Falls; Madigan-Rittman; 
     Massaro-Akron; Miles-Cleveland; Mobley-Sheffield Lake; Moore-
     Barberton; Nicely-Novelty; Novak-Elyria; Ohara-Fairport 
     Harbor; Pennington-Cleveland; Pescatrice-Medina; Pierce A.-
     Mogadore; Pierce J.-Sheffield Lake; Piper-Cleveland; 
     Priestly-Twinsburg; Prochniak-Stow; Prunty-Elyria; Raines-
     Elyria; Reyes-Cleveland; Riley-Bedford; Rinearson-Seville; 
     Robinson-Twinsburg; Russell-Cleveland; Scurlock-Chardon; 
     Sellers-Eastlake; Simmons-Jefferson; Sims-Cleveland; 
     Singleton-Wadsworth; Sinsel-Mogadore; Smith-Bay Village; 
     Spigner-Euclid; Thompson-Cleveland; Trujillo-Grafton; Veon-
     Olmsted Township; Vroman-Sheffield Lake; Warner-Doylestown; 
     Wells-Parma Heights; Williams-Maple Heights; Workman-Ravenna; 
     Yontz-Rittman; Yurtz-Medina.


                     united states marine corp--98

       Allen-Willowick; Anglin-Cleveland; Anthony-Brook Park; 
     Baggett-Chagrin Falls; Banks-Rootstown; Barr-Kent; Bell-
     Streetsboro; Benefield-Akron; Bentley-Kent; Bly-Cuyahoga 
     Falls; Boose-Medina; Bouhall-Cleveland; Boyer-Akron; Brady-
     Painesville; Breault-Brook Park; Brown-Cleveland; Bruce-
     Middleburg Heights; Bufkin-Mentor; Caradine-North Olmsted; 
     Collins-Perry; Cooper-Barberton; Cox-Solon; Creter-Brook 
     Park; Cupedro-Parma; Dabydeen-Cleveland; Devore-Parma; 
     Fincham-Mogadore; Flanagan-Munroe Falls; Frankland-Norton; 
     Frejofsky-Twinsburg; Garrett-Akron; Geiss-Brunswick; Gerber-
     Clinton; Gerson-Mentor; Green-Hudson; Haas-Solon; Hall-
     Barberton; Harasyn-Ravenna; Harte-Cleveland; Hernandez-
     Cleveland; Hill-Middleburg Heights; Houston-Brunswick; 
     Hughes-Mentor; Hurst-Cuyahoga Falls; Johnson-North Olmsted.
       Kawalek-Strongsville; Ken-Mentor; Kiel-Ashtabula; Kimmel-
     Norton; King-LaGrange; Konicek-Stow; Kramer-Akron; Krickhan-
     Brunswick; Kucharski-Ravenna; Lord-Parma; Manigault-Cleveland 
     Heights; McConahy-Kent; McCraney-Akron; McElroy-Wadsworth; 
     McHugh-Mentor; McLaren-Rock Creek; McLaughlin-Bay Village; 
     Mendez-Painesville; Morris-Mentor; Moyer-Twinsburg; Nagy-
     Conneaut; Navratil-Chagrin Falls; Nelson-Litchfield; 
     Ortizramos-Cleveland; Pachecorangel-Painesville; Palchesko-
     Aurora; Paulo-North Olmsted; Phillipp-Ashtabula; Ploskonka-
     Parma; Pollay-Ashtabula; Purtell-Eastlake; Ratigan-Parma; 
     Ray-Akron; Roth-Clinton; Schlauch-Wadsworth; Serrano-Olmsted 
     Falls; Serva-Ravenna; Shanley-Ravenna; Simon-Willoughby; 
     Skidmore-Ravenna; Smigel-Cleveland; Smith-Ashtabula; Stack-
     Brook Park; Staley-Parma; Stansky-Norton; Strausser-Stow; 
     Sturgill-Conneaut; Watkins-Strongsville; Watts-Stow; Weiss-
     Mentor; Wilmoth-Medina; Wilson-Cuyahoga Falls; Wood-Conneaut.


                         united states navy--55

       Acadimia-Geneva; Bowles-Rock Creek; Branham-Barberton; 
     Bryan-Ashtabula Coyle-Brooklyn; Czworkowski-Strongsville; 
     Davis-Brunswick; Dreger-Ravenna; Dudek-Bay Village; Gibson-
     Medina; Grays-Cleveland; Gregoire-Streetsboro; Halabica-
     Fairview Park; Hardman-Mentor; Higgins-Geneva; Hill-Mentor; 
     Horton-Ashtabula; Irizarry-Olmsted Township; Juncker-Grafton; 
     Koehring-Wadsworth; Konopa-Geneva; Kozma-Alliance; Lada-
     Lakewood; Martin S.-Chippewa Lake; Martin A.-Willoughby.
       McClanahan-New London; Miller-Kirtland; Mills-Kent; Moore-
     Wadsworth; Morgan-Parma; Muzic-Ravenna; O'Donnell-Parma; On-
     Akron; Palcic-Chardon; Phillips-Willoughby; Piper-Mentor; 
     Rayburn-Medina; Rodriguez N.-Cleveland; Rodriguez A.-Olmsted 
     Falls; Selders-Medina; Sharpe-Geneva; Shepherd-Avon Lake; 
     Singleton Jr. -Ravenna; Skipper-Akron; Sledz-Painesville; 
     Sokalski-Mentor; Soto-Painesville; Sweeney-Mentor; Tirado-
     Lorain; Trimble-Parma; Verdi-Geneva; Walker-Ashtabula; Welk-
     Madison; Williams-Ashtabula; Wimberly-Streetsboro.


                      united states coast guard--3

       Montgomery-Fremont; Reese-Sagamore Hills; Sanders-
     Brunswick.

                          ____________________



