

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3004-S3005]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, along with my dad, Clair, who started our 
family homebuilding business 45 years ago, I wish to congratulate the 
National Association of Home Builders on reaching its 75th anniversary.
  For three-quarters of a century, NAHB has been fighting for the 
American dream, advocating for those who want to own a home for 
themselves and their families and advocating for homebuilders who 
provide jobs and make the homeowners' dreams a reality.
  Before coming to Congress, I worked for my dad in our family 
homebuilding business, and I have great respect for the work their 
members do in our communities. They truly are job creators, economic 
drivers, and dream makers.
  I have been happy to meet with some of their members when they have 
come to Capitol Hill. I can tell you that it is helpful to have face-
to-face meetings with their team to talk about the issues that matter 
to them the most. Though I have a background in homebuilding, many 
congressional and Presidential staff do not. It makes a difference to 
hear from folks on the ground in their business.
  When it comes to homebuilding and homeownership, we all share the 
same goal--let's keep home prices affordable.
  Their advocacy has enabled millions of American families, like mine, 
to make one of the most important purchases of their lives: a home.
  As you know, when people achieve the American dream of homeownership, 
they are on the path to wealth creation and upward mobility, not to

[[Page S3005]]

mention the sense of pride that comes with having a place to call their 
own.
  That sense of pride overflows to the way people invest in their 
communities, and we all benefit from a more engaged neighbor. As they 
know better than anyone and Sir Winston Churchill once said, ``We shape 
our dwellings, and afterwards our dwellings shape us.''
  When the times are good or times are tough and through the general 
cyclical nature of the industry, NAHB has remained a steady advocate 
for the importance of affordable and quality housing, both for 
homeowners and renters. Thanks in part to them, builders and consumers 
are back up on their feet.
  I am grateful for their commitment to serving our Nation by building 
safe and beautiful homes, and I am grateful for the 75 years of 
advocacy from NAHB.
  Congratulations again on achieving this major milestone.

                          ____________________



