

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2611]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     TRIBUTE TO DR. CANDACE KENDLE

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
contributions of Dr. Candace Kendle, recipient of the 2017 Lifetime 
Achievement Award from the Association for Corporate Growth, 
Cincinnati.
  As the visionary cofounder of one of the largest international 
providers of drug development services to the biopharmaceutical 
industry, Dr. Candace Kendle is being honored for her achievements in 
founding and growing Kendle International, Inc., from a small, private 
startup in 1981, to a global clinical research organization traded on 
NASDAQ, KNDL, and acquired by INC Research in 2011.
  Under Dr. Kendle's leadership, Kendle International delivered a wide 
range of clinical development and clinical trial services to 
biopharmaceutical companies around the world, including the development 
of Celebrex.
  Prior to founding Kendle International, Inc., Kendle held senior 
faculty positions at several leading academic institutions, including 
the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Schools of Pharmacy and 
Medicine; the University of Pennsylvania, School of Medicine; 
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science; and the University of 
Cincinnati College of Pharmacy.
  A first-generation college student, Dr. Candace Kendle earned a 
bachelor of science and doctorate in pharmacy from the University of 
Cincinnati, College of Pharmacy, and was awarded an honorary Ph.D. in 
science from the University of Cincinnati in 2010.
  Dr. Candace Kendle is recognized worldwide as a leader in the CRO 
industry and is a founding member and past chairperson of the 
Association of Clinical Research Organizations. She has served as a 
mentor for the Fortune--U.S. State Department Global Women Leaders 
Mentoring Partnership and as a member of the Committee of 200, where 
she served on the board of directors for its foundation. She has also 
served on biotechnology task forces for the U.S. Department of 
Commerce, as well as for two Ohio Governors.
  Dr. Kendle serves on the boards of directors for USP, Emerson, and 
the H.J. Heinz Company. She is cofounder of Next Chapter Press and 
ReadAloud.org, an organization to encourage children and adults to read 
aloud to encourage lifelong learning. She is also a former trustee for 
the University of Cincinnati, the National Underground Railroad Freedom 
Center, and numerous other nonprofit organizations.

                          ____________________



