

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4420]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO SKIP WALTERS

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Skip Walters of Great Falls for a tremendous radio 
broadcasting career. Last week, Skip retired after providing over four 
decades of entertainment to his fellow Montanans. It was great to be 
interviewed by Skip on several occassions; he was always professional 
and never pulled any punches.
  Skip originally came to Montana while serving our Nation in the U.S. 
Air Force during the early 1970s, and his media journey began in Miles 
City on the same weekend as the annual Bucking Horse Sale in 1976. 
During his early days in Custer County, he broadcast mostly rock-and-
roll tunes and covered local sports, on KATL radio for the folks in 
eastern Montana. Three years later, an opportunity in his industry 
brought Skip to Great Falls. It was in Great Falls that Skip would 
further refine his skills by broadcasting country music to the 
listeners in Cascade County and the surrounding communities of central 
Montana. His 41-year career in the radio business culminated at KMON 
radio in Great Falls, where he broadcast for 27 years.
  Among his accomplishments, Skip was recognized in 2008 by the 
Journalism Education Association as a ``Friend of Scholastic 
Journalism.'' When asked about the circumstances that inspired him to 
begin a career in radio, Jim stated ``it's all about the music.'' 
Skip's love of music has been an acoustic blessing to many in the 
Treasure State.
  From helping to guard the intercontinental ballistic missile fields 
in the center of the State, to broadcasting good tunes across an even 
larger swath of the State, Skip has had a good journey. As he begins to 
enjoy his retirement, I would like to offer my thanks for his service 
to our Nation and appreciation for the artistic entertainment he 
provided to our State.

                          ____________________



