

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3020-S3021]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I have 10 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                           committee on aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session

[[Page S3021]]

of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Aging With Community: Building Connections that Last a Lifetime.''


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
17, 2017, at 10 a.m. in Room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, at 10 a.m. 
in Room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Improving America's Transportation Infrastructure: The Road 
Forward.''


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, at 2 p.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


                     committee on homeland security

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
17, 2017, at 10 a.m. for a business meeting.


                      committee on indian affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, in Room 628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a business 
meeting.
  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, in Room 628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct an oversight 
hearing on ``High Risk, No Reward: GAO's High Risk List for Indian 
Programs.''


                     committee on Veterans' Affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 17, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in SR-
418, to conduct a hearing on pending legislation.


                        subcommittee on Airland

  The Subcommittee on Airland of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 
17, 2017, at 3:30 p.m., in open session, to receive testimony on United 
States Military Small Arms Requirements.


                    subcommittee on strategic forces

  The Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
Services is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, May 17, 2017, at 2 p.m., in open session, to receive 
testimony on Military Space Organization, Policy, and Programs.

                          ____________________



