

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3195]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO WADE QUIGLEY

  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I wish to recognize another Alaskan, one 
who happens to be right here in the Senate Chamber, Senate Page Wade 
Quigley. I think we should call him the Junior Alaskan of the Week.
  Wade is from Girdwood, AK. He is actually right here, getting a 
little red in the face. I think he is slightly embarrassed. Girdwood 
was originally called Glacier City, for the ice-capped mountains 
surrounding the town. About a 45-minute drive from Anchorage, it is a 
very, very special place. My wife Julie and I and our three daughters 
love Girdwood. We spend a lot of time there skiing and enjoying the 
outdoors.
  Wade is now 16 years old. When I was told that this morning, I was a 
little surprised. He is much more mature than 16. He will be entering 
his senior year at South Anchorage High School, the school that my 
daughter Laurel attends, next fall.
  Like a true Alaskan, Wade takes full advantage of our State's 
abundant natural resources, teaching skiing in the winter and 
commercial fishing for pink salmon during the summers in Kodiak, AK.
  In DC, Wade has been doing a great job serving in the U.S. Senate as 
a page. According to those who supervise him, as well as his fellow 
pages, Wade is eager to take any opportunity to talk or learn about his 
State. The esteemed Laura Dove herself has referred to Wade as 
``Alaska's best ambassador.'' I thought that is what Senator Murkowski 
and I were supposed to be. It is a grand compliment. Others say he has 
a heart for public service, humor, and kindness. He is extremely well-
liked throughout this building.
  In just 2 weeks, Wade and all the pages will complete their service 
as Senate pages. By the way, it is very, very hard work. They are up at 
5 o'clock a.m., studying at 6 o'clock a.m., classes until 9 o'clock, 
and then working in the Senate until the wee hours. I thank Wade and 
all the Senate pages for their service to the Senate, to their States, 
to their country.
  Wade's energy and upbeat outlook will be missed in this body. Even 
though he is leaving us in the Senate, Wade hopes to continue his 
service to his country by attending the U.S. Air Force Academy.
  Whatever his final path is, I am sure he will bring to it the same 
work ethic and the same love for his country and for Alaska and, I 
believe now, after 6 months, for the U.S. Senate.
  Wade, to you and all the pages who have done such a great job, thank 
you, and, yes, thank you for being the Junior Alaskan of the Week.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.

                          ____________________



