

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4554]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NATIONAL DRUG COURT MONTH

  (Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, today I stand to 
support the lifesaving work of drug courts and veterans treatment 
courts during this National Drug Court Month, and to honor a 
constituent of mine with an incredible success story.
  These courts are an indispensable resource to law enforcement and 
other community stakeholders impacted by the opioid epidemic, claiming 
the lives of 91 Americans each and every day.
  Timothy Wynn is a veterans treatment court graduate from my district, 
whom I had the honor of meeting today. When the decorated marine 
returned home from Iraq in 2003, he turned to alcohol and other 
substances to ease his transition back into society. His substance use 
escalated. He found himself arrested seven times, and spent a year of 
his life in prison away from his young family. After his final arrest, 
Tim found the Philadelphia Veterans Treatment Court, where he was given 
the accountability he needed while also connecting him to the services 
he had earned.
  Today, Tim is reunited with his family and continues his mission as 
the mentor coordinator for the court where he once stood as a 
participant.
  There are drug court and veterans treatment court graduates just like 
Tim across the Nation. I call on my colleagues to support these 
graduates and the good work of drug courts and veterans treatment 
courts.

                          ____________________



