

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3326]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   TRIBUTE TO HELEN AND BOBBY FELDMAN

 Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Helen and 
Bobby Feldman for their strong leadership in the Jewish community. 
Bobby and Helen have been involved in a number of causes that celebrate 
their Jewish heritage as well as make a difference by putting the needs 
and well-being of others before themselves.
  Bobby and Helen have worked with many organizations, including Stand 
With Us, an organization dedicated to educating individuals all over 
the world about Israel and ways to combat anti-Semitism, and 
HonestReporting, a media watchdog organization dedicated to providing 
facts, figures, and statistics to journalists across the world to 
ensure Israel's story is told fairly by the media.
  Bobby Feldman's interest in Jewish culture and causes stemmed from 
his early interest in environmental issues. He worked with the Jewish 
National Fund in Las Vegas where he now serves as the president of the 
southern Nevada chapter. Their organization is working to revitalize 
areas in Israel by planting trees, creating parks, and working to build 
a better country for years to come.
  Helen Feldman has a list of accomplishments herself. She helped 
organize the Women's Alliance of the Jewish National Fund. This 
organization encourages future generations of Las Vegas women to 
celebrate our solidarity with Israel. She also volunteered her time at 
local nursing homes; there she shows off her amazing singing talents 
and brightens the day of so many Nevada seniors.
  On Sunday, April 30, the Jewish National Fund is hosting their annual 
Love of Israel brunch where both Helen and Bobby will be recognized for 
their involvement in the community. These two individuals should be 
proud of all that they have done together.
  Earlier this week, Israel celebrated their Holocaust Remembrance Day, 
honoring and remembering the 6 million Jewish people who were the 
victims of Nazi hatred. It serves us all as a reminder for the need to 
turn away prejudice and racism and embrace others. That is why I am 
both humbled and honored to acknowledge Helen and Bobby for their work 
here in the great State of Nevada. I also want to congratulate them on 
29 years of marriage, and I look forward to seeing more from them as 
they continue to make us all very proud.

                          ____________________



