

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4760]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO MARION CURRY

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, the Senate Budget Committee wishes to honor 
and recognize Marion Curry on her retirement from the Congressional 
Budget Office. Marion has worked in the budget analysis division of the 
Congressional Budget Office in various capacities for more than 38 
years and has been a full-time employee at CBO since 1987. During that 
time, she served as the administrative assistant for the projections 
unit, and over the past several years, she expanded her 
responsibilities to also encompass the health systems and Medicare 
unit, as well as the low-income health programs and prescription drugs 
unit.
  During her long tenure at CBO, Marion has skillfully carried out a 
variety of tasks--carefully checking cost estimates as she produced 
drafts, ensuring that timesheets were done correctly, directing callers 
to the appropriate person, and in general assuring that administrative 
matters were taken care of without a hitch. Such duties have undergone 
many changes over the years--from using telephones as the primary 
method of contact, typing tables by hand, and sending paper copies of 
documents, to the current approach of using email as the primary method 
of contact, transferring spreadsheets to the editorial staff for 
producing tables, and sending PDFs of documents with supplemental data 
posted on the web. Through all of those changes, Marion readily adapted 
to new technology and procedures and carried out her responsibilities 
with good humor, professionalism, a giving spirit, and a dedication to 
serving the Congress and the public.
  Marion contributed to CBO's work in ways that went well beyond her 
administrative responsibilities. She routinely took the lead to make 
sure that key life events of staff--such as birthdays, weddings, and 
births--were celebrated, and she was often the first person others in 
the organization consulted when they needed assistance with planning 
and organizing events. In addition, her contributions to the charitable 
works of the agency were well-known and appreciated. Marion is 
extremely warm, generous, and giving--she was always there to provide 
support, encouragement, and someone to talk to. Her contribution to the 
working environment at CBO was beyond measure, and she will be greatly 
missed.

                          ____________________



