

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4054-S4056]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

  The following petitions and memorials were laid before the Senate and 
were referred or ordered to lie on the table as indicated:

       POM-60. A joint resolution adopted by the Legislature of 
     the State of Maine memorializing the United States Congress 
     to reduce tariffs on Maine and lobster and seafood products 
     to keep Maine and domestic lobster and seafood products 
     competitive with Canadian lobster and seafood products; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                               H.P. 1120

       We, your Memorialists, the Members of the One Hundred and 
     Twenty-eighth Legislature of the State of Maine now assembled 
     in the First Regular Session, most respectfully present and 
     petition the United States Congress as follows:
       Whereas, the value of marine resources commercially 
     harvested in Maine exceeded $700 million in 2016, and the 
     value of lobster harvested in Maine accounts for over $533 
     million of that amount; and
       Whereas, total exports from Maine to the European Union 
     exceeded $503 million in 2016; and
       Whereas, exports from Maine of lobster to the European 
     Union totaled approximately $158 million, or approximately 
     80% of all lobster exported from the United States to the 
     European Union, in 2016; and
       Whereas, the European Union is the largest global fish and 
     seafood market in the world; and
       Whereas, Maine and Canada share the same lobster species 
     and compete for market share in the European Union and around 
     the world; and
       Whereas, the European Union imposes tariffs on fish and 
     seafood products that range from 2% on certain types of 
     salmon to 20% on processed lobster imported from both the 
     United States and Canada; and
       Whereas, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, or 
     CETA, is a free trade agreement between Canada and the 
     European Union that will reduce tariffs on fish and seafood 
     products exported from Canada to the European Union; and
       Whereas, CETA will go into effect on the first day of the 
     month following the date the European Union and Canada notify 
     each other that each has completed all necessary procedures 
     for implementation; and
       Whereas, when CETA takes effect, the 8% tariff on live 
     lobster exports from Canada to the European Union will be 
     immediately eliminated, the 6% to 16% tariff on frozen 
     lobster exports from Canada to the European Union will be 
     eliminated over 3 years and the 20% tariff on processed 
     lobster exports from Canada to the European Union will be 
     eliminated over 5 years; and
       Whereas, while tariffs on lobster and seafood products 
     exported from Canada to the European Union are being 
     eliminated, tariffs on Maine and other domestic lobster and 
     seafood products exported to the European Union will remain; 
     and
       Whereas, the elimination of tariffs on Canadian lobster and 
     seafood products will increase trade between Canada and the 
     European Union, resulting in economic injury to Maine and 
     other domestic lobster and seafood harvesters and processors; 
     and
       Whereas, the impact of CETA on Maine lobster harvesters, 
     who landed over 130 million pounds of lobster in 2016, should 
     be minimized; and
       Whereas, the impact of CETA on Maine lobster dealers, who 
     support 675 jobs and paid $28.4 million in wages in 2016, 
     should be minimized; and
       Whereas, under the United States Constitution, Article I, 
     the Congress of the United States has the power to regulate 
     commerce with foreign nations; now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That We, your Memorialists, on behalf of the 
     people we represent, take this opportunity to respectfully 
     request that the United States Congress, under the provisions 
     of Article I of the United States Constitution, negotiate to 
     reduce tariffs on Maine and domestic lobster and seafood 
     products, or otherwise mitigate the effects of CETA, to 
     ensure that historical, lucrative industries are not damaged 
     by the economic disadvantage that will result from CETA 
     unless these negotiations are undertaken; and be it further
       Resolved, That suitable copies of this resolution, duly 
     authenticated by the Secretary of State, be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States Senate, to the Speaker of 
     the United States House of Representatives and to each Member 
     of the Maine Congressional Delegation.
                                  ____

       POM-61. A resolution adopted by the House of 
     Representatives of the State of Michigan urging the President 
     of the United States and the United States Congress to 
     continue funding the Essential Air Service program throughout 
     Michigan; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.

                        House Resolution No. 59

       Whereas, the Essential Air Service program was established 
     after airlines were deregulated to ensure that small 
     communities previously served by certificated airlines 
     maintained commercial service. The Essential Air Service 
     program is used to help provide business leaders, 
     recreationalists, and residents reliable air travel to and 
     from small airports around the country, including five 
     airports in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, and has transported 
     countless individuals since the program's enactment; and
       Whereas, the Essential Air Service program is important to 
     the economic well-being of northern Michigan and the Upper 
     Peninsula in towns such as Alpena, Muskegon, Pelleton, 
     Escanaba, Iron Mountain, Ironwood, Sault Ste. Marie, 
     Manistee, and Houghton-Hancock. Northern Michigan is renowned 
     for its vast mineral deposits and rugged wilderness that have 
     long supplied American industry with affordable, 
     domestically-mined metals and timbers for manufacturing. The 
     region's breathtaking scenery and lakeshore are some of the 
     most stunning in the Midwest. Such a large expanse requires 
     reliable air travel to make the region's mines, forests, 
     lakeshores, communities, and colleges as accessible as 
     possible; and
       Whereas, President Trump has asked for a reduction in the 
     Essential Air Service's budget. Businesses depend on reliable 
     air travel to and from small airports in northern Michigan 
     and the Upper Peninsula, and airports require funding from 
     the Essential Air Service program to maintain critical 
     infrastructure like runways, lighting, and safety equipment. 
     Any reduction in federal funding for this vital program will 
     harm economic activity in the Upper Peninsula and have a 
     direct and negative impact on American manufacturing and 
     these communities; now, therefore, be it
       Resolved by the House of Representatives, That we urge the 
     Congress and President of the United States to continue to 
     fund the Essential Air Service program throughout Michigan; 
     and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this resolution be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States, the President of the 
     United States Senate, the Speaker of the United States House 
     of Representatives, and the members of the Michigan 
     congressional delegation.
                                  ____

       POM-62. A resolution adopted by the Senate of the 
     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania recognizing the month of May 
     2017 as ``Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Awareness Month''; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.

                       Senate Resolution No. 126

       Whereas, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is better 
     known as Lou Gehrig's Disease; and
       Whereas, ALS is a fatal neurodegenrative disease 
     characterized by degeneration of cell bodies of the upper and 
     lower motor neurons in the gray matter of the anterior horn 
     of the spinal cord; and
       Whereas, The initial symptoms of ALS is weakness of the 
     skeletal muscles, especially those of the extremities; and
       Whereas, As ALS progresses, the patient experiences 
     difficulty in swallowing, talking and breathing; and
       Whereas, ALS eventually causes muscles to atrophy and the 
     patient becomes a functional quadriplegic; and
       Whereas, Patients with ALS typically remain alert and are 
     aware of their loss of motor functions and the inevitable 
     outcome of continued deterioration and death; and
       Whereas, ALS affects military veterans at twice the rate of 
     the general populations; and
       Whereas, ALS occurs in adulthood, most commonly between 40 
     and 70 years of age; peaking at approximately 55 years of 
     age, and affects both men and women without bias; and
       Whereas, Annually, more than 5,000 new ALS patients are 
     diagnosed throughout the nation; and
       Whereas, In Pennsylvania, there are currently more than 
     1,000 individuals who have been formally diagnosed with ALS; 
     and
       Whereas, The $350,000 in State funding appropriated by the 
     General Assembly for ALS support services in the Supplement 
     to the General Appropriation Act of 2015 provided services to 
     more than 900 constituents and a substantial savings to the 
     State budget and taxpayers; and
       Whereas, The ALS Association reports that on average, 
     patients diagnosed with ALS only survive two to five years 
     from the time of diagnosis; and
       Whereas, ALS has no know cause, prevention or cure; and
       Whereas, ``Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Awareness Month'' 
     increases the public's

[[Page S4055]]

     awareness of ALS patients' circumstances and acknowledges the 
     negative impact this disease has on ALS patients and their 
     families and recognizes the research being done to eradicate 
     ALS; therefore be it
       Resolved, That the Senate designate the month of May 2017 
     as ``Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Awareness Month'' in 
     Pennsylvania; and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this resolution be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States and to the presiding 
     officers and members of the Pennsylvania Delegation in the 
     Congress of the United States.
                                  ____

       POM-63. A joint resolution adopted by the General Assembly 
     of the State of Colorado designating March 20, 2017, as 
     ``Colorado Aerospace Day''; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                     Senate Joint Resolution 17-019

       Whereas, Our nation and the world have significantly 
     benefitted from technological and scientific advances 
     resulting from space exploration and aerospace activities; 
     and
       Whereas, Colorado is the second-largest state in the 
     country for private aerospace employment; 25,500 Coloradans 
     are directly employed in aerospace, with a payroll exceeding 
     $3.4 billion, and Colorado's aerospace cluster supports more 
     than 188,000 jobs; and
       Whereas, Colorado is home to the nation's top aerospace 
     companies, including Ball Aerospace, Boeing, DigitalGlobe, 
     Harris Corporation, Lockheed Martin Space Systems, Northrop 
     Grumman, Raytheon, Sierra Nevada Corporation, Teledyne Brown 
     Engineering, and United Launch Alliance; and close to 500 
     additional companies that support the aerospace sector by 
     developing products, including spacecraft, launch vehicles, 
     satellites, command and control software, sensors, and 
     navigation operations; and
       Whereas, The United States Air Force Academy, along with 
     Colorado's colleges and universities, including the 
     University of Colorado Boulder and University of Colorado 
     Colorado Springs, Colorado School of Mines, Colorado State 
     University, Metropolitan State University of Denver, 
     University of Denver, Colorado Mesa University and Fort Lewis 
     College provide access to world-class aerospace-related 
     degrees and offer aerospace companies one of the country's 
     most educated workforces; and
       Whereas, Colorado is the home of the Laboratory for 
     Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of 
     Colorado Boulder that began in 1948, a decade before NASA, 
     and is the world's only research institute to have sent 
     instruments to all eight planets and Pluto and combines all 
     aspects of space exploration through science, engineering, 
     mission operations, and scientific data analysis; and
       Whereas, Colorado is home to NOAA's Space Weather 
     Prediction Center, a world-leading center of predictions of 
     the solar and near-Earth space environment and the nation's 
     official source of watches, warnings, and alerts of incoming 
     solar storms, using satellite observations to protect and 
     save lives and property; and
       Whereas, Colorado is a strategic location for national 
     space and cyber activity, with five key military commands--
     North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), the United 
     States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM), the U.S. Strategic 
     Command's Joint Functional Component Command for Space (JFCC-
     Space) Missile Warning Center, the United States Air Force 
     Space Command, and the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense 
     Command/Army Forces Strategic Command and three space-related 
     United States Air Force bases--Buckley, Peterson, and 
     Schriever; and
       Whereas, The 460th Space Wing at Buckley Air Force Base, 
     located in Aurora, provides operational command and control 
     of three constellations of space-based infrared missile 
     warning systems, has been defending America continuously 
     since 1970, and is a critical part of global defense and 
     national security; and
       Whereas, Colorado is uniting global partners around the 
     world to ensure space access for developing nations via the 
     first planned United Nations space mission--Sierra Nevada 
     Corporation located in Louisville, Colorado, together with 
     the United Nations Office of Outer Space Affairs, will use 
     its Dream Chaser spacecraft to allow developing countries the 
     opportunity to develop and fly microgravity payloads for an 
     extended duration in orbit; and
       Whereas, Colorado leads the charge in bringing current and 
     future GPS assets to life, a service provided free to the 
     world by Air Force Space Command in Colorado Springs; and
       Whereas, From the operation of GPS satellites by Schriever 
     Air Force Base, to GPS III, the most powerful GPS satellite 
     to date being designed and built by Lockheed Martin and 
     launched by United Launch Alliance with Raytheon developing 
     the command and control capabilities, and companies such as 
     Boeing, Harris Corporation, Braxton Technologies, and 
     Infinity Systems Engineering also supporting GPS development 
     and operations from locations in Colorado, Colorado's GPS 
     technologies enable an integral part of our global economy to 
     have an incalculable impact that has improved the everyday 
     lives of billions of people around the world; and
       Whereas, Various organizations are key to Colorado's 
     prominence in aerospace, such as the Colorado Space Coalition 
     (CSC), a group of industry stakeholders working to make 
     Colorado a center of excellence for aerospace; the Colorado 
     Space Business Roundtable, working to bring together 
     aerospace stakeholders from the industry, government, and 
     academia for roundtable discussions and business development 
     and to encourage grassroots citizen participation in 
     aerospace issues; the Colorado Chapter of Citizens for Space 
     Exploration, whose mission is to promote better understanding 
     of aerospace and its importance in our economy and daily 
     lives as well as promoting the importance of human space 
     exploration; and Manufacturer's Edge, a statewide 
     manufacturing assistance center that encourages the strength 
     and competitiveness of Colorado manufacturers by providing 
     on-site technical assistance through coaching, training, and 
     consulting and collaboration-focused industry programs and 
     leveraging government, university, and economic development 
     partnerships: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, By the Senate of the Seventieth-first General 
     Assembly of the State of Colorado, the House of 
     Representatives concurring herein:
       That we, the members of the Colorado General Assembly:
       (1) Strongly urge and request the government of the United 
     States of America to take action to preserve and enhance 
     United States leadership in space, spur innovation, and 
     ensure our continued national and economic security by 
     increasing funding for space exploration and activities, 
     including regaining the ability of the United States to 
     deliver astronauts to low earth orbit in the next few years; 
     to commit to sending astronauts to the moon, asteroids, and 
     beyond within this decade; and to aggressively pursue NASA's 
     Orion spacecraft and Space Launch System to get astronauts to 
     Mars orbit by 2028 and boots on the ground by 2033;
       (2) Recognize and appreciate Colorado's space and aerospace 
     companies and organizations, especially the growing 
     membership and activities of the Colorado Chapter of Citizens 
     for Space Exploration, whose activities to promote space 
     exploration are helping to increase public understanding and 
     enthusiasm for exploration funding;
       (3) Recognize and appreciate the contributions of 
     Colorado's universities, colleges, and national research 
     laboratories to the space and aerospace industries, including 
     their expertise in exploration of the planets and the 
     universe and space-based Earth observation;
       (4) Express our most sincere and deepest appreciation to 
     the men and women working in and supporting military and 
     civilian aerospace companies and organizations in Colorado; 
     and
       (5) Hereby declare March 20, 2017, to be ``Colorado 
     Aerospace Day''; and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this Joint Resolution be sent to 
     President Donald Trump; Vice President Mike Pence; Speaker 
     Paul D. Ryan; House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi; Senate 
     Majority Leader Mitch McConnell; Senate Minority Leader 
     Charles Schumer; Senator Cory Gardner; Senator Michael 
     Bennet; Congresswoman Diana DeGette; Congressman Jared Polis; 
     Congressman Scott Tipton; Congressman Ken Buck; Congressman 
     Doug Lamborn; Congressman Mike Coffman; Congressman Ed 
     Perlmutter; Robert Lightfoot, Acting NASA Administrator; Lesa 
     Roe, Acting NASA Deputy Administrator; Mr. Michael P. Huerta, 
     Federal Aviation Administration Administrator; Governor John 
     Hickenlooper; Lieutenant Governor Donna Lynne; Major General 
     H. Michael Edwards, Adjutant General, Colorado National 
     Guard; Dr. George C. Nield, Associate Administrator for 
     Commercial Space Transportation at the Federal Aviation 
     Administration; General John Raymond, Air Force Space 
     Commander; Colonel Dan Wright, USAF, Commander Aerospace Data 
     Facility-Colorado; Betty Sapp, Director, National 
     Reconnaissance Office; Charles Huettner, Executive Director, 
     Aerospace States Association; Lieutenant Colonel Shelli 
     Brunswick, Acting Chief Executive Officer, Space Foundation; 
     Major General (Retired) Andy Love, Co-Chair, Colorado Space 
     Coalition; Tom Marsh, Co-Chair, Colorado Space Coalition; 
     Rick Ward, Chair, Colorado Space Business Roundtable; and 
     Stacey DeFore, Chair, Colorado Citizens for Space 
     Exploration.
                                  ____

       POM-64. A joint resolution adopted by the Legislature of 
     the State of Nevada rescinding all previous resolutions of 
     the Nevada Legislature which requested Congress to convene a 
     convention to propose amendments to the United States 
     Constitution; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                     Senate Joint Resolution No. 10

       Whereas, The Constitutional Convention of 1787 was 
     initially convened to make revisions to the Articles of 
     Confederation and this Convention decided instead to discard 
     the Articles of Confederation entirely and create a new 
     system of government; and


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S4055, July 18, 2017, in the last column, near the 
bottom of the page, the following appears: POM-64. A joint 
resolution adopted by the Legislature of the State of Nevada 
rescinding all previous resolutions of the Nevada Legislature 
which requested Congress to convene a convention to propose 
amendments to the United States Constitution; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. Whereas, The Constitutional Convention of 1787 was 
initially convened to make revisions to the Articles of 
Confederation and this Convention decided instead to discard the 
Articles of Confederation entirely and create a new system of 
government; and . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: POM-64. A joint 
resolution adopted by the Legislature of the State of Nevada 
rescinding all previous resolutions of the Nevada Legislature 
which requested Congress to convene a convention to propose 
amendments to the United States Constitution; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. Senate Joint Resolution No. 10 Whereas, The 
Constitutional Convention of 1787 was initially convened to make 
revisions to the Articles of Confederation and this Convention 
decided instead to discard the Articles of Confederation entirely 
and create a new system of government; and . . .


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

       Whereas, The United States Constitution has served as the 
     cornerstone of American liberty since its creation in 1787 
     and was the first written national constitution to set forth 
     a system of separation of powers and to ensure that the 
     rights of minority groups could not be easily trampled upon 
     by the will of the majority; and
       Whereas, Despite turmoil and grave political and economic 
     concerns, including, without limitation, the contested 
     presidential elections of 1800, 1876 and 2000, the Civil War 
     and the Great Depression, a subsequent constitutional 
     convention has not been held since 1787; and
       Whereas, The United States Constitution has proven to be 
     resilient and has been amended only 27 times during the 
     course of its 230-year history; and

[[Page S4056]]

       Whereas, Article V of the United States Constitution 
     requires the Congress of the United States to convene a 
     constitutional convention upon the application of two-thirds 
     of the several states; and
       Whereas, The Nevada Legislature has, at various times, 
     passed resolutions requesting Congress to convene a 
     convention, pursuant to Article V of the United States 
     Constitution, to propose amendments to the Constitution 
     relating to a wide range of subjects; and
       Whereas, Over the course of time, the will of the people of 
     the State of Nevada may have changed relating to these 
     resolutions; and
       Whereas, A constitutional convention convened by Congress 
     could make sweeping changes to the United States Constitution 
     and threaten the liberty of future generations of Nevadans; 
     and
       Whereas, The Nevada Legislature is aware that other state 
     legislatures have made applications requesting that Congress 
     convene a constitutional convention; and
       Whereas, The Nevada Legislature no longer supports its 
     previous resolutions which requested that Congress convene a 
     constitutional convention, most of which were adopted over 
     three decades ago, and does not wish for these resolutions to 
     be included with similar applications which were made by 
     other state legislatures; Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, By the Senate and Assembly of the State of 
     Nevada, Jointly, That the members of the 79th Session of the 
     Nevada Legislature hereby rescind, repeal, cancel, void, 
     nullify and supersede each previous resolution passed by the 
     Nevada Legislature which requested the Congress of the United 
     States to convene a constitutional convention pursuant to 
     Article V of the United States Constitution; and be it 
     further
       Resolved, That the members of the 79th Session of the 
     Nevada Legislature urge each state legislature which 
     requested Congress to convene a constitutional convention to 
     withdraw such applications; and be it further
       Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate prepare and 
     transmit a copy of this resolution to the Vice President of 
     the United States as the presiding officer of the United 
     States Senate, the Speaker of the United States House of 
     Representatives and each member of the Nevada Congressional 
     Delegation; and be it further
       Resolved, That this resolution becomes effective upon 
     passage.
                                  ____

       POM-65. A joint resolution adopted by the Legislature of 
     the State of Texas applying to the United States Congress to 
     call a convention of the states under Article V of the United 
     States Constitution for the limited purpose of proposing one 
     or more amendments to the United States Constitution, which 
     impose fiscal restraints on the federal government, limit the 
     power and jurisdiction of the federal government, and limit 
     the terms of office for federal officials and members of 
     Congress; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                     Senate Joint Resolution No. 2

       Whereas, The drafters of the United States Constitution 
     empowered state legislatures to be guardians of liberty 
     against abuses of power by the federal government; and


 =========================== NOTE =========================== 

  
  On page S4056, July 18, 2017, in the first column near the 
bottom of the page, the following appears: POM-65. A joint 
resolution adopted by the Legislature of the State of Texas 
applying to the United States Congress to call a convention of the 
states under Article V of the United States Constitution for the 
limited purpose of proposing one or more amendments to the United 
States Constitution, which impose fiscal restraints on the federal 
government, limit the power and jurisdiction of the federal 
government, and limit the terms of office for federal officials 
and members of Congress; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
Whereas, The drafters of the United States Constitution empowered 
state legislatures to be guardians of liberty against abuses of 
power by the federal government; and . . .
  
  The online Record has been corrected to read: POM-65. A joint 
resolution adopted by the Legislature of the State of Texas 
applying to the United States Congress to call a convention of the 
states under Article V of the United States Constitution for the 
limited purpose of proposing one or more amendments to the United 
States Constitution, which impose fiscal restraints on the federal 
government, limit the power and jurisdiction of the federal 
government, and limit the terms of office for federal officials 
and members of Congress; to the Committee on the Judiciary. Senate 
Joint Resolution No. 2 Whereas, The drafters of the United States 
Constitution empowered state legislatures to be guardians of 
liberty against abuses of power by the federal government; and . . 
.


 ========================= END NOTE ========================= 

       Whereas, The federal government has abused its power by 
     creating a crushing national debt through improper and 
     imprudent spending; and
       Whereas, The federal government has abused its power by 
     invading the legitimate role of the states through the 
     manipulative process of federal mandates that are to a great 
     extent unfunded; and
       Whereas, The federal government has ceased to abide by a 
     proper interpretation of the United States Constitution; and
       Whereas, It is the solemn duty of state legislatures to 
     protect the liberty of the people and of future generations 
     by proposing amendments to the United States Constitution 
     that place clear restraints on federal power; and
       Whereas, Article V of the United States Constitution 
     authorizes the several state legislatures to restrict the 
     power of the federal government through the amendment 
     process; and
       Whereas, Article V of the United States Constitution 
     provides that on application of the legislatures of two-
     thirds of the several states Congress shall call a convention 
     for the purpose of proposing amendments to the constitution: 
     Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the 85th Texas Legislature apply to Congress 
     to call a convention under Article V of the United States 
     Constitution for the limited purpose of proposing one or more 
     amendments to the constitution to impose fiscal restraints on 
     the federal government, to limit the power and jurisdiction 
     of the federal government, and to limit the terms of office 
     of federal officials and members of Congress; and, be it 
     further
       Resolved, That, unless rescinded by a succeeding 
     legislature, this application by the 85th Texas Legislature 
     constitutes a continuing application in accordance with 
     Article V of the United States Constitution until at least 
     two-thirds of the legislatures of the several states have 
     applied to Congress to call a convention for the limited 
     purpose of proposing one or more amendments to the 
     constitution to impose fiscal restraints on the federal 
     government, to limit the power and jurisdiction of the 
     federal government, and to limit the terms of office of 
     federal officials and members of Congress; and, be it further
       Resolved, That the Texas secretary of state forward 
     official copies of this resolution to the president of the 
     United States, to the speaker of the House of Representatives 
     and the president of the Senate of the Congress of the United 
     States, and to all members of the Texas delegation to 
     Congress with the request that this resolution be officially 
     entered in the Congressional Record as an application to 
     Congress for a convention under Article V of the United 
     States Constitution for the limited purpose of proposing one 
     or more amendments to the constitution to impose fiscal 
     restraints on the federal government, to limit the power and 
     jurisdiction of the federal government, and to limit the 
     terms of office of federal officials and members of Congress; 
     and, be it further
       Resolved, That the Texas secretary of state forward 
     official copies of this resolution to the secretaries of 
     state and to the presiding officers of the legislatures of 
     the several states with the request that they join this state 
     in applying to Congress for a convention under Article V of 
     the United States Constitution for the limited purpose of 
     proposing one or more amendments to the constitution to 
     impose fiscal restraints on the federal government, to limit 
     the power and jurisdiction of the federal government, and to 
     limit the terms of office of federal officials and members of 
     Congress.
                                  ____

       POM-66. A resolution adopted by the Mayor and City 
     Commission of the City of Miami Beach, Florida, urging the 
     President of the United States and the United States Congress 
     to grant temporary protective status to Haitians in the 
     United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
       POM-67. A resolution adopted by the Township Council of the 
     Township of Mahwah, New Jersey, recognizing June 2, 2017, as 
     National Gun Violence Awareness Day; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                          ____________________



