

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3915-S3916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      RECOGNIZING CAMP BEAUREGARD

 Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, today I would like to acknowledge 
and honor Camp Beauregard on its 100th year of service. Named after 
famed Louisiana General Pierre Gustav Toutant Beauregard, Camp 
Beauregard is a U.S. Army installation operated by the Louisiana 
National Guard. For the past century, Camp Beauregard has hosted 
hundreds of thousands of soldiers training for combat missions all 
across the world and has served the State and local communities.
  The site that eventually became Camp Beauregard was constructed in 
the late 1850s as a military academy. Following the Civil War, the 
school was relocated to Baton Rouge and renamed Louisiana State 
University. In the early 1900s, the site became the permanent camp for 
the Louisiana State National Guard's annual training exercises. The 
site officially became Camp Beauregard in 1917 as the United States 
entered World War I. Over 44,000 soldiers trained at Camp Beauregard 
before the end of the First World War, and hundreds of thousands of men 
trained at Camp Beauregard during the Second World War.
  Camp Beauregard is currently the largest National Guard post in 
Louisiana and is essential to the Louisiana National Guard's efforts to 
serve the United States, Louisiana, and local communities. Not only 
does Camp Beauregard serve as a training ground for soldiers preparing 
for overseas combat operations, the camp also plays a vital role during 
major weather events and hosts competitions and family

[[Page S3916]]

events. For 100 years, Camp Beauregard has served Louisianans and 
Americans alike.
  I and my fellow Louisianans are proud of Camp Beauregard's 
accomplishments and the positive impact the training there has had on 
our State, our Nation, and across the world. I would like to thank 
those currently at Camp Beauregards as well as all those who have 
served our country there, and congratulate them for 100 years of 
service and patriotism.

                          ____________________



