

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5534-H5756]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 431 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 2810.
  The Chair appoints the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Mitchell) to 
preside over the Committee of the Whole.

                              {time}  1920


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 2810) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense and for military 
construction, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes, with Mr. Mitchell in the chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the 
first time.
  The gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and the gentleman from 
Washington (Mr. Smith) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I am proud to bring before the House H.R. 2810, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. It was 
reported favorably by the House Armed Services Committee at 11:59 p.m. 
on June 28, 2017, by a vote of 60-1. Now, that vote is an indication of 
the bipartisan support that exists to support our troops and to fulfill 
our obligations placed on us by the Constitution.
  Mr. Chairman, I think it is always helpful for us to remind ourselves 
of the authority by which we undertake our responsibilities. Article I, 
Section 8 of the Constitution says that Congress has the power and the 
responsibility ``to raise and support Armies. . . . To provide and 
maintain a Navy; To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of 
land and naval Forces,'' and, of course, ``To make all Laws which shall 
be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing 
Powers.''
  The members of our committee and our staff take those 
responsibilities very seriously. This year, we seek to carry them out 
in a world which is as dangerous and complex as any of us have ever 
seen. One example from the news of the day is the alarming progress 
North Korea is making towards having an intercontinental ballistic 
missile that can carry nuclear weapons to our homeland.

  Now, we have, of course, a number of tools to use, including 
diplomacy and sanctions, but there is no substitute for military power, 
and I believe we must develop and deploy more of it to be ready to deal 
with these growing threats.
  So the bill before us today substantially increases money for missile 
defense so we are more capable of protecting our homeland against those 
ballistic missiles. It also increases funding for key munitions and for 
intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance so we can have better 
visibility on what adversary is doing.
  It increases the end strength for the Army, the Navy, and the Air 
Force, just as they requested. And it funds more joint exercises with 
key allies in the Pacific. It boosts our shipbuilding budget to get 
more ships into the water faster, and also cheaper.
  So, just as an example, Mr. Chairman, each of those items is 
important for dealing with this growing threat coming from North Korea, 
and we could sit here and go through a similar sort of discussion when 
it comes to Iran, or the provocative actions of Russia and China, or 
the terrorist organizations of various shades.
  Of course, we cannot guarantee that the capabilities that we will 
vote on in this bill will be available by the time the crisis comes 
for, unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, we are still dealing with defense 
budgets that were cut by more than 20 percent at a time when the 
threats around the world were growing. So we can't guarantee that these 
capabilities will be available when we need them.
  But what we can guarantee is, if we don't fund these things now, they 
will not be available when we need them, so that is the priority given 
to this bill.
  Mr. Chairman, exactly 1 month ago, on June 12, Secretary Mattis and 
Chairman Dunford testified before our committee. And I would like to 
read just one paragraph of the Secretary's testimony where he was 
comparing what the military was like when he left it and when he came 
back as Secretary.
  Secretary Mattis testified: ``Four years later, I returned to the 
Department and I have been shocked by what I have seen with our 
readiness to fight. For all the heartache caused by the loss of our 
troops during these wars, no enemy in the field has done more harm to 
the readiness of our military than sequestration. We have sustained our 
ability to meet America's commitments abroad because our troops have 
stoically shouldered a much greater burden.''
  Four years later, shocked, more harm by sequestration than the 
enemies in the field, and it is only because our folks are so 
incredible that they have born an increasing burden. That is what the 
Secretary testified.
  Mr. Chairman, we have, indisputably, the finest military in the 
world, but it is also indisputable that it has been severely damaged by 
continuing resolutions, by sequestration, and by failure of the 
executive and legislative branches to adequately support the men and 
women out there on the front lines. We have an urgent need to begin to 
repair and rebuild our military.
  And I also believe, Mr. Chairman, it is fundamentally wrong to send 
men and women out on dangerous missions without providing them the best 
equipment, in the best shape, with the best training that our country 
can possibly provide. This bill, if followed by matching appropriation, 
takes a significant step toward meeting that objective, to support 
those troops.
  It also makes major reforms in the way the Pentagon does business. 
Among other reforms, it enables the military to buy commercial products 
through online sites such as Amazon, Staples, and Grainger. We require 
life cycle maintenance costs to be considered at the beginning of a 
program, as must intellectual property rights, to maximize competition 
in the maintenance and repairs. Oversight into service contracts has 
increased, and there is much more, of course, in the bill.
  Mr. Chairman, this bill is the vehicle by which we usually, for 55 
years, at least, fulfill our responsibilities under the Constitution 
that I mentioned, to provide for the common defense. I believe that is 
the first job of the Federal Government.
  I want to just express my appreciation to each of the members of our 
committee. Each of them has contributed to the product before us. Each 
of them takes their responsibilities under the Constitution very 
seriously; no one more so than the Ranking Member, Mr.

[[Page H5535]]

Smith of Washington. We don't always agree on the judgment calls about 
issues, but I have no doubt that he and all the members of the 
committee try to do what is right for the country and put the interests 
of our troops first.
  That is exactly the attitude that we must follow, I think, on the 
floor over the next 3 days as we go through the amendments which we 
will consider.
  I also want to express appreciation to the committee and personal 
staff who have worked on this bill.
  It has been a challenging year for a variety of reasons, but, as I 
started, I will finish. I am proud of this product. I hope it will gain 
the support of the entire House.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 5 minutes.
  I thank the chairman, first of all, for his hard work on this bill, 
and all the members of the committee and the staff. As the chairman has 
pointed out, this is a bill that we have passed for 55 straight years. 
It is a long and complicated bill that essentially sets the defense and 
national security policy for our country, and there is a lot of good 
work that has gone into this bill.
  Again, I thank the members for doing that. They recognize the complex 
threat environment that the chairman correctly described, and we are 
attempting to address it as best we can in this very difficult 
environment.
  I think the thing that is most difficult that I really want to 
emphasize is what the chairman said in the middle of his remarks: that 
over the past 6 years we have had one government shutdown, a number of 
continuing resolutions, several threatened government shutdowns, and 
the unpredictability that that has presented to the Defense Department.
  Now, to be clear, it has also presented a fair amount--the same 
amount of unpredictability to the nondefense discretionary budget that 
also has to deal with those challenges. But that uncertainty about our 
budget has made it very difficult to plan, and nowhere is that more 
important than at the Department of Defense.

                              {time}  1930

  As they try to lay out a strategy for national security, not knowing 
from one month to the next how much money you are going to have or what 
you are going to be able to spend it on is a huge problem. I will say a 
little bit more about this later, because as big a problem as that is, 
we haven't solved it.
  As we debate this bill here today, we do not have a budget resolution 
from either the House or the Senate. This is a problem we still need to 
work on. However much money we wind up spending on defense, if we had a 
cohesive plan and a clear idea of how much money we were going to have 
over the next few years, it would be a lot easier to plan for those 
contingencies.
  Again, I do want to compliment the work that has been done on this 
bill. Particularly, I focus a lot on unconventional threats. I think 
that is the changing nature of the world. I used to chair what is now 
called the Emerging Threats Committee. I want to thank Congresswoman 
Stefanik and Ranking Member Langevin for their work and focusing on 
cyber, focusing on supporting our special operation forces that have 
borne so much of the brunt of the fight that we face in countering 
terrorism.
  I also want to thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Cooper for 
their work on the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, focusing on space, in 
particular, on the importance of emphasizing that. For a long time, our 
country dominated space. We didn't have to worry about it. But now a 
lot of other countries are catching up and competing with us. I think 
this bill reflects the importance of that.
  So there are a lot of very solid things in this bill, but I want to 
close by emphasizing two significant problems that we still need to 
address.
  One I mentioned already. We don't have a budget resolution. This bill 
has $621 billion in it, as I understand it, in the base bill, and 
another, I believe, $75 billion in the overseas contingency fund. We 
are spending nearly $700 billion in this bill on defense. That is a lot 
of money, and the chairman mentioned a lot of the very necessary 
programs that it is going towards. However, that breaks the budget 
caps.
  In order to break the budget caps, the House and the Senate have to 
vote to break the budget caps. It is July. We haven't done that. I will 
emphasize that in the Senate it actually requires 60 votes to break the 
budget caps.
  So as much as I see the need in defense, given the complex threat 
environment out there, it is very possible that $72 billion of what is 
in this bill is going to disappear between now and the end of this year 
unless we address the broader issue of sequestration and budget caps.
  I will also emphasize that addressing that issue by gutting funding 
for the nondefense discretionary budget and plussing up defense is not 
going to work for a couple of reasons.
  Number one, a lot of the national security needs that we have come 
out of some of those other items. The proposal to cut the State 
Department by 31 percent in a time when we face the complex threat 
environment that was described is ridiculous. In fact, I will quote 
Chairman Mattis as well, who said:

       If you are going to cut the State Department by 30 percent, 
     you better give me five more divisions because I am going to 
     need them. We are not going to be able to resolve conflicts 
     in a peaceful way.

  And also, of course, we have domestic needs that are very important 
as well. We are still waiting on the infrastructure package from the 
administration.
  There are a lot of needs that are not being met, and we are not yet 
voting to bust the budget caps. Here we have a bill that does that, but 
this House has to step up and take that vote if this defense 
authorizing bill is going to go forward.
  The second and final point, we still don't have a national security 
strategy from the White House. Now, we have a very complex threat 
environment, as I have said more often than I meant to during the 
course of the last few minutes--we do. We have got Russia, China, North 
Korea, Iran, a variety of terrorist threats. What we have heard in our 
committee for the last 6 months is a series of people from the Pentagon 
coming over and saying the house is on fire. We don't have enough money 
to do--fill in the blank. There are a whole lot of different things.
  What we haven't heard is a strategy, and the most disturbing 
conversation I had in that regard was with someone from the Office of 
Net Assessment.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield myself an additional 1 minute.
  He explained to me that we laid out a strategy in 2012 and said we do 
not have the money to fund that strategy right now. So I asked him: 
Well, how short are you? How much more money do you need?
  He looked at me like he didn't understand what I was asking, so I 
sort of explained it. The short answer: he didn't know.
  How could he not know? I mean, if you can sit there confidently and 
say, ``My gosh, we don't have enough money; we are way crazy short of 
our 2012 strategy'' and you still can't say how short, then you don't 
have a strategy. We need a strategy to make sure this money is spent 
wisely.
  I will close with a compliment of the chairman for something that he 
has done. We should also not assume that simply spending more money at 
the Department of Defense is necessarily going to make us safer. We 
have to make sure we spend it efficiently and effectively. I think this 
bill has a lot of very solid efforts to try to make us do that, towards 
acquisition reform, towards spending the money more wisely.
  It is not just a matter of spending more money. We have got to spend 
it smarter, and we have got to confront the lack of a strategy, and we 
have got to confront the fact that we still have not resolved our 
budget resolution problem.
  Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson), chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Readiness.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the House 
Armed Services Committee chairman, Mac Thornberry, for his determined 
leadership to promote peace through strength. I am grateful to support 
H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.

[[Page H5536]]

  First of all, I would like to thank my colleague and ranking member, 
Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo of Guam, for her tireless efforts and 
participation in this process, and I also thank the Readiness 
Subcommittee members of the House Armed Services Committee on both 
sides of the aisle for bipartisan input on this bill. The creation of 
the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act truly was bipartisan.
  Mr. Chairman, over the past several months, we have heard testimony 
from every military service branch about their urgent need to address 
the alarming readiness shortfalls. Their testimonies were sobering, 
confirming Congress must take bold action.
  Here today, we have the responsibility of reducing the risk to our 
servicemembers by making sure they are well trained, supported, and 
that the equipment they use is properly maintained and combat ready. 
There are numerous important readiness provisions in the authorization, 
including adding over $2 billion to long-neglected facilities 
sustainment and restoration and modernization accounts.
  It gives the Department of Defense more responsive facility 
construction, repair, and real estate authorities for more efficient 
use of DOD resources.
  It extends multiple temporary hiring authorities to allow the 
Department of Defense to fill critical manpower gaps, in particular at 
our defense industrial facilities--our depots, arsenals, and shipyards.
  None of the readiness provisions are arbitrary. They are specifically 
targeted to stop and, as much as possible, to reverse the decline of 
the readiness of our Armed Forces so we can continue to combat and 
deter the threats to national security from around the world.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2810, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, and encourage my colleagues in 
the House to support it as well.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms. Tsongas), the ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces.
  Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Chairman, two weeks ago, the Armed Services 
Committee advanced the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 to the House floor with broad bipartisan support. I would 
like to thank Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith for their 
work in developing this year's bill.
  I would also like to thank Congressman Turner, chairman of the 
Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, of which I am the ranking 
member, for his leadership and spirit of bipartisanship this year.
  This year's bill includes investments to fill genuine readiness needs 
and funding that is critical to ensuring that our men and women in 
uniform have the best cutting-edge resources and best equipment 
possible to keep them safe when defending our Nation.
  I was encouraged that the bill we have passed out of committee 
directs the Defense Department to provide specific updates and reports 
on a number of programs and platforms so that we can robustly conduct 
our oversight responsibility on behalf of the American people.
  However, as we consider the bill on the floor today and in the coming 
days, I remain concerned about how we fund these needs. Substantial 
budget increases for the Department of Defense at the expense of other 
vital national programs undermines investments in our national 
competitiveness and the future of our country and, I believe, makes us 
less secure over the long term.
  Providing our men and women in uniform with the resources they need 
to carry out their mission is one of our most solemn obligations, but 
we must also fund these resources responsibly in order to safeguard our 
economic vitality and our national security.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. Turner), the chairman of the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and 
Land Forces.
  Mr. TURNER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2810, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
  I have the privilege of serving as the chairman of the Tactical Air 
and Land Forces Subcommittee, and I want to particularly thank my 
subcommittee's ranking member, Ms. Tsongas, for her support in 
completing the markup of the bill, as well as for her hard work and for 
the bipartisan work that we have done together on the issue of sexual 
assault in the military. I appreciate her leadership in that.
  I strongly support this bill and can't emphasize enough Chairman 
Thornberry's steadfast leadership in raising the top line in this bill. 
This bill recommends $631 billion, a significant and needed increase 
over the original budget request that supports both the base and 
unfunded requirements, which totaled over $30 billion. Without Chairman 
Thornberry's leadership, this number would not be sufficient.
  We are presenting a budget that helps rebuild the readiness of our 
forces. This increased base funding will begin to rebuild full-spectrum 
readiness from years of deferred modernization brought on by the 
previous administration.
  Within the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee jurisdiction, 
this bill authorizes over $12 billion in additional funds to address 
critical unfunded modernization requirements identified by the 
services.
  The bill recognizes the importance of land forces in current and 
future operations and authorizes over $2 billion to accelerate armored 
brigade team modernization, to include additional Abrams tanks and 
Bradley fighting vehicles.
  The bill addresses strike fighter capability and capacity shortfalls 
and authorizes another $2 billion in additional funding to secure 
additional F-35 Strike Fighters and F-18 Super Hornets to address 
unfunded requirements for the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps.

  I am also pleased that this bill supports the European Deterrence 
Initiative, using OCO and addressing the needs of our European allies.
  This bill contains language from the BE HEARD sexual assault bill 
that I worked with Representative Tsongas on, that we introduced in 
June, and I am very proud that we continue to advance for the cause of 
protecting our servicemembers from sexual assault.
  I am also pleased to note that Evan's Law is included in this bill. 
This bill will ensure that the that Department of Defense implements 
military residential window safety measures to protect against 
unintentional falls by young children.
  Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support the National Defense 
Authorization Act.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Guam (Ms. Bordallo), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Readiness.
  Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Chairman, I would first like to commend Chairman 
Thornberry, Ranking Member Smith, and the committee staff who have 
worked many long nights on the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018.
  While there are very real questions about the top line number, and I 
believe it would be inappropriate and reckless to have any additional 
funding come off the backs of nondefense spending, this is an important 
step forward in rebuilding our military readiness.
  This bill includes additional operations and maintenance funding to 
support more combat training center rotations and needed investment in 
the facilities sustainment, restoration, and modernization accounts, 
providing more training opportunities and better maintenance facilities 
to live, work, and operate in. However, readiness cannot be bought back 
in a year, and these targeted investments must continue.
  Furthermore, the bill provides authorities to right-size civilian 
personnel shortfalls that have stressed maintenance backlogs at our 
shipyards and our depots. It also will make more effective the 
Department's Quarterly Readiness Report and raise the minor military 
construction threshold and clarify unspecified projects to provide 
additional flexibility to the Department.
  I would especially like to thank Chairman Thornberry for following 
through on his commitment last year to work with me to include my 
provision that would help address critical workforce shortages 
affecting military

[[Page H5537]]

construction and healthcare essential to the military buildup on Guam. 
I also thank our Ranking Member Smith and Readiness Subcommittee 
Chairman Joe Wilson for working with me on this issue and on this bill. 
I look forward to continuing to work together to protect the full 
intent of this legislation.
  The readiness portion of this bill also includes provisions to 
support ship repair in the western Pacific, as well as full funding for 
critical military construction projects.

                              {time}  1945

  Given our posture, our strategic needs and challenges in the region, 
it is essential that we continue to sufficiently resource and support 
an active and engaged Indo-Asia-Pacific force.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle as this process continues.
  And lastly, Mr. Chair, I would like to commend Vickie Plunkett for 
her over two decades of service in the House of Representatives, and 10 
years on the House Armed Services Committee.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Rogers), the chair of our Subcommittee on 
Strategic Forces.
  Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I would like to thank Chairman 
Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith for their leadership in bringing 
this years's NDAA. I would also like to thank my friend and colleague 
from Tennessee, Mr. Jim Cooper, the ranking member on our subcommittee, 
for being such a great partner as we worked on this important bill.
  Now, I would like to focus on some key provisions in the bill. First, 
space reform. This bill takes two monumental steps to reform national 
security space. First, the bill provides for the creation of a space 
core within the Air Force to fix the fragmented space acquisition 
process.
  Second, it provides for the establishment of a subordinate, unified 
command for space under U.S. Strategic Command to ensure integration of 
the joint command of all space operations.
  I can't stress enough the urgent necessity of these reforms. Our 
society and our military are enormously dependent on space. Meanwhile, 
our adversaries continue to grow their counterspace capabilities. These 
adversaries have already reorganized their space forces toward the goal 
of neutralizing our advantage in space.
  Multiple studies going back almost two decades have recommended a 
space force to fix our space acquisition and management problems. 
Regardless, the DOD and the Air Force have yet to fix the problem. 
Decisionmaking authorities for space acquisitions remain fragmented 
across over 60 organizations. This bill would consolidate acquisition 
authority and improve our ability to jointly operate in space.
  Earlier this week, I returned from Asia where I got to meet with our 
troops on the Korean Peninsula. I was in theater when North Korea 
conducted their intercontinental ballistic missile. We must be vigilant 
when it comes to our missile defenses, and this year's NDAA does that.
  Noteworthy initiatives in the bill include the authorization of 
approximately $2 billion in additional funds for the Missile Defense 
Agency. It also accelerates our efforts to develop a space-based sensor 
and interceptor capabilities. Lastly, the bill supports our nuclear 
deterrence and includes provisions to improve the oversight of our 
nuclear command, control, and communications.
  Mr. Chair, I urge support of this important legislation.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Langevin), the ranking 
member of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
  (Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chair, I want to thank the ranking member for 
yielding. And, Mr. Chair, I would like to begin by thanking Chairman 
Thornberry, Ranking Member Smith, and Chairwoman Stefanik for their 
collective efforts in crafting this bill that is before us this 
evening.
  I would also like to thank the staff who worked tirelessly on this 
productive and forward-thinking legislation.
  It is an honor and a privilege to serve as a senior member of the 
House Armed Services Committee on behalf of the selfless servicemen and 
women who protect our Nation every day, and I am proud of the very 
strong bipartisan effort represented by this year's NDAA.
  Mr. Chair, we accomplish a number of important objectives in this 
bill. First of all, we enhance our deterrence capabilities in Europe 
and support our Nation's submarine force. I am very proud of the 
Virginia class submarines that we build starting right in my district, 
and we also provide strong support for the Columbia class program that 
will be the Ohio replacement program.
  We also make it clear that climate security is, indeed, national 
security, backing the Department in its efforts to build resilience, 
reduce risk, and prepare for all types of threats that may come our 
way, even if those threats come from climate change.
  But as ranking member of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and 
Capabilities, I am particularly proud of the provisions we have 
included on cybersecurity, special operations, and research and 
development. We strengthen our cyber cooperation with our partners and 
allies through both training and collaboration with the NATO 
Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence.
  We better leverage the U.S. Global Engagement Center to combat 
propaganda and information warfare operations conducted against America 
and her allies, and we grant permanent authority for family support 
programs within Special Operations Command that reflect the unique 
needs of these warfighters and their families.
  We also reinvigorate the DOD scholarship program so that students are 
encouraged to pursue information security degrees and can come to work 
defending our Nation from the get-go. We can have all of the cyber 
policies in place that we want, but if we don't have the trained 
workforce to execute those policies, we are going to be behind the 
curve, and this helps to close that gap.
  We advance hypersonic weapons research, development, and especially 
transition efforts. We prioritized the readiness of U.S. Cyber Command 
in our Cyber Mission Force, and we strengthen congressional oversight 
of sensitive cyber military operations and command cyber warfare tools 
and capabilities.

  This approach was deliberate in nature, and it moves us closer to a 
military that will be able to address the variety of threats that we 
face in the 21st century.
  Again, I would like to thank Chairman Thornberry, Ranking Member 
Smith, and Chairwoman Stefanik, and all of my colleagues on the House 
Armed Services Committee, as well as the staff, for their hard work on 
this very important bill.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wittman), the distinguished chair of the 
Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2810, the 
FY18 National Defense Authorization Act, but I continue to be surprised 
at some of the national security pundits who believe that a diminished 
force structure will improve our national security.
  Some have questioned whether we should fully fund national defense. 
Some have even questioned whether we should continue to expand our 
armed services to meet the strategic challenges posed by a rising China 
and Russia, by an unpredictable North Korea, and a belligerent Iran.
  Mr. Chairman, our time is up. The time of action is now. The focus of 
our Nation is upon us to provide for our national security. I am 
pleased that we appear to have turned the tide in properly resourcing 
the requirements of our armed services; and I am pleased that we are 
authorizing the funding to match our strategy and providing what our 
combatant commanders need to win any future conflicts; and I am pleased 
that we have acknowledged the importance of our servicemembers and the 
hardships that they endure so that we can enjoy our free and democratic 
society.

[[Page H5538]]

  In reference to the Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee, I 
believe that we have reversed a trend toward a diminishing Navy and are 
tracking toward a strengthened 355-ship fleet. The bill expands on the 
eight ships requested by the administration and adds an additional five 
ships. The bill also recommends additional advance procurement for 
aircraft carriers and attack submarines, while fully funding the 
Columbia class ballistic missile submarine and the B-21 raider bomber 
programs.
  As to aircraft, the bill recommends an expansion of KC-46As, C-130Js, 
E-2Ds, and P-8s. Finally, the bill delivers the right authorities that 
will save the Department of Defense billions--yes, billions--of 
dollars.
  Additionally, I want to recognize Ranking Member Joe Courtney. He has 
done extraordinary work and has been a true partner in this journey and 
continues to work in a collaborative, bipartisan basis, to deliver the 
best for our national security.
  I continue to be impressed with the results that can be achieved when 
a subcommittee and the full committee focuses on a common goal and 
works to achieve bipartisan results.
  I urge my colleagues to support the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Speier), the ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Military Personnel.
  Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for his 
outstanding leadership and candor on our committee. I want to give a 
special shout-out to our chairman, Mr. Thornberry, who shaved an hour 
and a half off our deliberations a couple of weeks ago by bringing us 
into the 21st century, and laptops to look at our amendments. So it was 
a great improvement.
  I also want to thank my chair, Chairman Mike Coffman, for his 
leadership. We have worked well together, and I look forward to 
continuing that relationship, and also to a top-notch staff.
  This bill includes provisions that will provide the military services 
flexibility to recruit and retain members of our armed services and 
continues our commitment to taking care of our military families.
  The NDAA continues funding for DOD impact aid for schools with large 
numbers of military-connected families and authorizes reimbursement, up 
to $500 for military spouses' expenses related to obtaining a 
professional license or certification when moving to a new State.
  The committee continues to provide oversight of important programs in 
the bill requiring reviews to ensure the Morale, Welfare, and 
Recreation programs are properly funded to required levels and the 
Department of Defense's debt collection practices are fair and do not 
place undue burdens on servicemembers or their families.
  The bill includes the PRIVATE Act, which I cosponsored with 
Congresswoman Martha McSally and other members of the committee to 
prohibit the wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual 
images and ensure the military services have the tools to prosecute 
those who violate the law.
  The bill also provides support for victims of sexual assault by 
mandating training for Special Victims' Counsel to recognize and 
address unique challenges often faced by male victims of sexual 
assault.
  I am pleased that the bill continues the committee's efforts to 
assist those with post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain 
injury, as well as ensuring families are educated on suicide factors 
that are often associated with TBI or post-traumatic stress.
  However, as Ranking Member Smith has said, this NDAA fails to make 
the hard choices and trade-offs that are expected of us. The NDAA goes 
beyond the President's request to provide 2.4 percent pay raises for 
our servicemen and -women, at an additional cost of $200 million, an 
expense simply added to the top line.
  The NDAA also authorizes an increased end strength for the Army at a 
cost of $4 billion, again, simply adding it to the top line. Certainly, 
our troops deserve a pay raise, but the question that must be asked is: 
Where is the money coming from? And on what basis are these decisions 
being made?
  Congress has not received a strategic plan from the Pentagon that 
would inform us on how large the military needs to grow. By just adding 
funding to the NDAA, Congress is not providing the stable, predictive 
funding the military needs. In order to do that, we need to address the 
big elephant in the room, the sequestration and budget control act 
caps.

  The CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentlewoman.
  Ms. SPEIER. Despite all of these additions, the committee was 
unfortunately unable to find the required offsets to fund an extension 
to the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance to ensure it does not 
expire in May 2018. This falls short of my strong desire, shared by 
other members of the committee, to permanently fix the survivor benefit 
compensation.
  This also amounts to a shameful tax on over 60,000 surviving spouses 
who are already struggling emotionally and financially. While the SSIA 
extension would be an important temporary fix, Congress must make a 
permanent fix to the offset.
  We cannot continue to allow surviving military spouses to suffer from 
our inaction.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 30 seconds just to make 
two points.
  Number one, President Barack Obama was inaugurated in January 2009. 
The first national security strategy he submitted was in May of 2010, a 
year-and-a-half later. So I don't think it is completely unreasonable 
that we haven't yet gotten the national security strategy from the new 
administration.
  Secondly, the pay raise for the troops is based on the statutory 
formula which is related to the cost of living. That is where it comes 
from. And it seems to me to say, no, you don't really get what the 
formula says you deserve, is not appropriate.
  Now, the administration did not request it, and the criticism from 
some is that we should not provide it. I think if the formula is wrong, 
we should change it, but if the formula says that is how much the cost 
of living has gone up, we should provide it.
  Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Coffman), the chair of the Subcommittee on 
Personnel.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2810, 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
  The bill contains significant policy and funding initiatives that 
continue our commitment to maintain military personnel and family 
readiness and address issues important to our troops. The provisions 
contained in this bill provide our warfighters, retirees, and their 
families the necessary pay and benefits to sustain them into today's 
highly stressed force.
  To support these efforts, this bill establishes a fully funded by-law 
pay raise for all of our servicemembers overriding the President's 
ability to reduce the pay raise. After years of lower than by-law pay 
raise requests, it is critical that we continue to give our troops and 
their families the pay increases they deserve.

                              {time}  2000

  The bill increases the end-strengths of our Active Duty, National 
Guard, and Reserve forces, increasing mission readiness while reducing 
the stress and strain on the force and their families.
  The bill further focuses last year's management reform of the 
Military Health System to provide clear responsibility for the delivery 
of healthcare services at military medical treatment facilities and for 
military medical readiness.
  The bill also stops an ill-considered, cost-saving measure that would 
close several U.S. military hospitals overseas. We believe our 
servicemembers and their families should continue to have the best 
medical care possible wherever they serve.
  It also continues to improve sexual assault prevention and response 
by adding a new provision to the Uniform Code of Military Justice 
specifically prohibiting nonconsensual sharing of intimate images, 
expanding Special Victims' Counsel training to include training on the 
unique challenges often

[[Page H5539]]

faced by male victims, and clarifying the process by which a designated 
representative can be appointed by a victim prior to a court-martial.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from Colorado.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Finally, servicemembers returning to civilian life and 
their spouses are challenged by varying State licensure and 
certification requirements. Rather than imposing a single Federal 
standard on the States, we provide for a $500 reimbursement to defray 
these costs. We ask States to work with the Secretary of Defense to 
develop common standards where possible.
  In conclusion, I want to thank Ms. Speier and her staff for their 
contributions to the mark and support in this process. Of course, we 
were joined by an active, informed, and dedicated group of subcommittee 
members. Their recommendations and priorities are clearly reflected in 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. 
Additionally, I appreciate the dedication and hard work of the 
subcommittee staff.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 
minutes to the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. Davis).
  Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise to commend the 
dedicated bipartisan work of the House Armed Services Committee in 
recognizing our subcommittee chairs, members, and the staff as well in 
bringing this critical bill to the floor.
  But as it has been stated earlier, the budget numbers that we are 
talking about contained in the bill are, unfortunately, aspirational. 
We have not passed a budget resolution, and the Budget Control Act is 
still the law of the land.
  While it is true that the BCA was a bipartisan failing--we can all 
take credit for that--pointing fingers does not solve the problems. We 
are on an uncertain and dangerous path, one where we have not been 
honest with ourselves on many levels and where we continue to play 
games with our men and women serving in the military.
  We must recognize that the only path to solving these issues is 
bipartisan collaboration and legislation to repeal the BCA. Continuing 
resolutions and unrealistic, deeply partisan budgets amount to nothing 
more than professional malpractice.
  I have to say, Mr. Chairman, that I was encouraged to see that the 
Senate included a proposal similar to the one I introduced during 
markup to continue paying the widows of servicemembers who died in 
defense of our Nation. Their personal compensation is not just a small 
gesture but our fundamental responsibility.
  I am also encouraged by the promise our chairman made regarding this 
issue. He said that the issue ``has to be fixed and will be,'' but 
there are, as he acknowledged as well, ``difficult tradeoffs that have 
to be made.'' I completely agree. We will all have to contribute to the 
solutions. I am prepared to do that, and I know that my colleagues are 
as well. We all have to hope together that we move forward and be 
prepared to do that.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler) who is the distinguished chair of the 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
  Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. I would like to thank 
Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith for bringing this 
important bill to the floor.
  As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to provide support 
for our men and women in uniform while they selflessly serve our 
Nation. This bill takes significant steps to address our military's 
severe readiness crisis by ensuring that our troops have the resources, 
training, and capabilities needed to face the growing threats of today.
  As chairwoman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, I am 
proud of the provisions included in this bill to reform the Foreign 
Military Sales process, provide funding to address the critical 
infrastructure needs of the U.S. Nuclear Security Enterprise, and 
protect our Nation's highly sensitive U.S. military information--
information that our adversaries are actively seeking to exploit.
  This bill is good news for the warfighter. It authorizes 22 
additional F-18 Super Hornets to help fill the Navy's strike fighter 
shortfall and fully funds the B-21 Raider--a critical platform needed 
to deter and defeat future aggression around the world.
  I am proud to represent Missouri's Fourth Congressional District, 
which is home to Whiteman Air Force Base and Fort Leonard Wood. This 
bill funds modernization programs for the B-2 Spirit and authorizes 
phase one of a new hospital facility at Fort Leonard Wood.
  Since arriving to Congress, I have been fighting to address the 
infrastructure needs of our Army ammunition plants, like the one at 
Lake City, which is the sole source for our Army's small caliber ammo. 
These plants are in dire need of modernization, and this bill 
authorizes much-needed funding to help improve these deteriorating 
facilities.

  Thanks to the leadership of Chairman Thornberry, the Armed Services 
Committee increased defense spending to meet the needs of today's 
warfighter. I appreciate the opportunity to work with Ranking Member 
Seth Moulton and all the committee members on this bill. I am proud of 
the bipartisan fashion in which we work, and I urge my colleagues to 
support its passage.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Brown).
  Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chairman, first, let me start by thanking 
Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith not only for their 
leadership but the bipartisan collaborative approach to the work of the 
committee.
  Certainly as a new member of the 115th Congress, I find that very 
refreshing. From what I have seen, it is no surprise that 50-plus years 
in a row we have successfully passed the NDAA.
  Mr. Chairman, the United States faces serious security threats: 
aggression from North Korea and Russia, long and costly campaigns in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, and new battlefields in cyberspace and in outer 
space.
  After years of sequestration, there is consensus certainly in the 
House Armed Services Committee that Congress must address readiness 
shortfalls and modernization challenges facing our military. So in the 
NDAA, we made greater investments in training and equipping the forces 
and prioritized projects that extend our technological and warfighting 
edge.
  But increasing defense authorizations and appropriations, absent a 
clear national security strategy, will not make our country safer. We 
need a smart, strategic approach to national security that provides 
clear goals and objectives and that incorporates an all-of-government 
approach. That means not only increasing defense spending, but also 
ensuring funding for the State Department and USAID and reversing 
proposed cuts to nondefense programs that make the world more stable 
and secure.
  We owe it to our servicemen and -women to provide them with both the 
resources to accomplish their mission abroad and to pursue the American 
Dream when they return home, and that is good schools, family-
supporting jobs, and safe neighborhoods. We cannot do one at the 
expense of the other. The long-term success of our country depends on 
that.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Stefanik) who is the distinguished chair 
of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
  Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Chairman, today I rise in strong support of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, which 
increases readiness and ensures that those who serve our Nation are 
fully equipped, trained, and supported.
  As the chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and 
Capabilities, I am especially proud of the oversight regarding stronger 
cyber warfare capabilities, safeguarding technological superiority, 
enabling our Special Operations Forces around the

[[Page H5540]]

globe, providing resources and authorities to counter terrorism and 
unconventional warfare threats, and energizing programs and activities 
that counter the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
  Our achievements in cybersecurity carry three broad themes: First, 
the bill increases congressional oversight of cyber operations by 
including a bill introduced by myself, Ranking Member Langevin, 
Chairman Thornberry, and Ranking Member Smith that ensures Congress is 
kept fully informed of sensitive military cyber operations.
  Second, we bolster international partnerships for cyber warfare to 
counter aggressive adversaries, including efforts to counter and 
mitigate adversarial propaganda efforts and information warfare 
campaigns.
  Third, the bill continues to build and enhance our U.S. cyber warfare 
capabilities and activities.
  Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, this bill reinforces counterterrorism and 
unconventional warfare capabilities by fully resourcing U.S. Special 
Operations Command's programs and activities and increasing 
congressional oversight of intelligence activities.
  Finally, I would like to thank Mr. Rogers, chairman of the Strategic 
Forces Subcommittee, for including language that supports the decision 
for a future East Coast missile defense site.
  I would like to thank Mr. Coffman, chairman of the Military Personnel 
Subcommittee, for including portions of my bill, the Lift the 
Relocation Burden From Military Spouses Act.
  Before I conclude, I would like to thank Chairman Mac Thornberry for 
his leadership, as well as my subcommittee ranking member, Congressman 
Jim Langevin of Rhode Island, for his bipartisan energy and cooperation 
on all of these issues.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 2810.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much 
time remains on each side.
  The CHAIR. The gentleman from Washington has 9\1/2\ minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from Texas has 8 minutes remaining.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Bacon) who is a valued member of the 
committee and a retired Air Force General.
  Mr. BACON. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in staunch support of the 
National Defense Authorization Act of 2018.
  I served in the military under the past five Presidents starting with 
Ronald Reagan and witnessed firsthand the erosion of our combat edge. 
When I joined the military, we out-trained our competitors with a 2-to-
1 flying-hour advantage. Today, we are lagging behind them in training, 
and it is unconscionable to send our warriors to fight without every 
possible advantage. We don't want a close fight, but that is where we 
are at today.

  As a General Officer, I was charged with preparing our forces to 
prevail over any adversary, a nearly impossible task given the damage 
done by a 22 percent reduction of defense spending over the last 8 
years while we are at war. This act will begin to right the ship with a 
10 percent top-line increase providing the means to rebuild readiness, 
deter aggression, and defeat adversaries. It invests in peace through 
strength.
  The Constitution charges this body with the power to provide for the 
common defense. For the Armed Services Committee, this is a solemn 
obligation rooted in over 50 years of bipartisanship, and we meet this 
obligation with the 2018 NDAA.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge support.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Knight) who is another very valuable 
member of our committee.
  Mr. KNIGHT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2810, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. This bill is 
the result of mindful deliberation and absolute dedication to our 
Nation's soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. I am proud to be 
standing here with fellow members of the Armed Services Committee and 
speak to the merits of this legislation.
  In particular, the acquisition reforms in this bill will help get 
proven, advanced equipment in the hands of servicemembers faster and 
for a better price. This bill brings much-needed innovation to the way 
defense acquisition personnel spend taxpayer dollars and the way 
commercial businesses engage with the U.S. Government.
  It prioritizes oversight of service contracts. This type of contract 
accounts for over 50 percent of DOD contract expenditures, which up to 
now was unclear and unanalyzed. It will help secure a better value for 
precious dollars spent through reforms in the contract auditing 
process.
  The small-business industrial base is a critical part of DOD 
procurement. Our small businesses have a unique ability to strengthen 
our contracting process by driving innovation and competition in the 
marketplace. It is important that we create opportunities for these 
contractors and strengthen entrepreneurial development programs and 
help eliminate barriers of entry and diversify our industrial base.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Courtney) who is the ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Smith for yielding and 
compliments to him and Chairman Thornberry for the outstanding work, 
again, that the two of them have collaborated on to keep this really 
massive undertaking on schedule. It is really a very truncated schedule 
this year, but they both did it. Again, it is kudos to both of them in 
terms of their leadership skills.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the 2018 NDAA. Front and 
center in our deliberations in the Seapower and Projection Forces 
Subcommittee on which I serve with Chairman Wittman, who is in his 
first term and did an outstanding job, was the build-up of our Navy 
fleet which has been a multiyear process of strategic planning.

                              {time}  2015

  In December of last year, the prior Navy secretary, Ray Mabus, who 
served in the prior administration, released an updated force structure 
assessment that laid out the requirement for increasing the Navy's 
fleet from 308 ships to 355.
  Then, in January, Navy officials outlined a plan to get us on a 
construction plan to get us on a path to a larger fleet. In early May, 
the chief of naval operations emphasized that ``time is of the 
essence'' in growing the Navy.
  The stage was set to get started on the larger fleet. That was why so 
many of us were surprised on May 23 and disappointed when the White 
House sent over basically a 308-ship budget for a 355-ship fleet.
  I am proud to say that, on a bipartisan basis, we have done much 
better in this bill than the budget that came over. Among other things, 
the bill explicitly makes it the policy of our Nation to achieve a 355-
ship Navy. We add five additional ships in 2018, for a total of 12, to 
get us moving to the larger fleet that the prior administration and the 
new administration know that we need.
  One area I am particularly proud of is the area of undersea forces. 
Reflecting the urgent testimony of our combatant commanders, our panel 
once again led the way in forging an aggressive but realistic plan to 
grow our submarine fleet.
  To achieve this, our bill authorizes multiyear procurement authority 
for 13 Virginia class attack submarines for the next 5 years. Not only 
would this keep us at the two-a-year level we have been on for the last 
few years, but would go even further by reaching a three-submarine 
build rate in the coming years.
  The seapower portion of the bill does much more to support a range of 
priorities on the seas and in the skies, far too many to itemize here 
today.
  I will just say that I am proud of the bipartisan contribution of all 
of our subcommittee members into the product before the House today, 
and, again, Mr. Wittman for his first year as subcommittee chairman.
  In particular, I want to highlight the work of our subcommittee staff 
in

[[Page H5541]]

helping us craft the bill. I am joined here today by one of my staff, 
Stephen Clement, who has been working with us, but he is going to be 
moving on to better things. I want to publicly thank him for his 
outstanding work in terms of helping us get to the place we are here 
today.
  In closing, I would urge my colleagues to support the Defense 
Authorization bill.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Banks), a valuable member of our committee who continues 
to serve our Nation in the Reserves.
  Mr. BANKS of Indiana. Mr. Chair, I rise today to express my strong 
support for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018.
  As the most recently deployed veteran serving in Congress, serving in 
Afghanistan just 2 years ago, I know the national security challenges 
facing our country firsthand. While these challenges are not easily 
solved, this legislation represents a significant step forward.
  I want to take a moment and specifically thank Chairman Thornberry 
for his leadership and assistance to myself and other freshman members 
of the committee.
  Working together with colleagues on both sides of the aisle, the 
Armed Services Committee has crafted a bill focused on rebuilding and 
reforming the Department of Defense. By procuring what we need, fixing 
what we already have, and by being good stewards of the taxpayers' 
dollars by proposing new contract audit reforms, this bill begins the 
hard work of getting our Department back on the right track.
  While we cannot control the existential threats facing our Nation, we 
must ensure those in uniform are ready to address those threats when 
necessary.
  Moreover, as this week's tragic C-130 accident that claimed the lives 
of 16 servicemembers reminded all Americans, our servicemembers place 
their lives on the line each day.
  The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. BANKS of Indiana. From giving our troops a well-deserved raise to 
funding our vital missile defense programs, I believe this legislation 
begins the process of rebuilding and reforming our military so we are 
ready for whatever comes next.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. Chair, what I really want to focus on is the budget problem, 
because that is really underlying all of this.
  We have heard a lot of good speeches from Members talking about what 
is in this bill, how important it is, how what is in this bill is 
attempting both to meet our national security threats and, as 
importantly, to make sure that we take care of the men and women who 
serve our military, who fight to protect us to make sure, first of all, 
that they and their families are taken care of from a financial 
standpoint, but also to make sure they have the equipment and training 
they need to be ready to fight the fights that we ask them to go to. I 
think that is one of the great challenges.
  Whatever it is we decide ought to be our national security strategy, 
I think the thing we all agree on is we need to make sure we provide 
the training, equipment, and support so that the men and women who 
serve in the military are ready for that fight.
  The worst thing we can do is create a hollow force and set up an 
expectation that: You need to do all of this, but we are only going to 
train you for that. So if this other stuff comes up, you are not going 
to be ready.
  We have talked about this a lot in our committee to make sure that we 
are ready for the fight that comes. And that is where the budget 
creates a very significant problem.
  We have talked a lot about the Budget Control Act and sequestration. 
It is pretty clear why we had the Budget Control Act and sequestration. 
I was here for it. We were days away from not raising the debt ceiling 
and basically not meeting our commitments to pay our bills. There are 
those who figure that that can be a significant problem.

  So we made an agreement. We were going to try to get the budget under 
control. Sequestration was put in place, with the expectation that it 
wouldn't be implemented because we would come to a grand bargain on 
revenue and spending that would get our deficit under control. Well, we 
didn't, and sequestration kicked in.
  But as we sit here today, even if we got rid of sequestration, even 
if we got rid of the budget caps, we are still $20 trillion in debt. We 
are going to run a $700 billion deficit. This is projected to go 
nowhere but up in the years ahead. I don't believe that is sustainable.
  Now, I don't think we need to balance the budget tomorrow or next 
year or even in the next 5 years, but we need to get ourselves on a 
sustainable path. And we flat refuse to do that.
  You don't see a lot of campaigns promising to cut specific programs 
or promising to raise taxes. I love the fact that if you poll the 
American people, there is a very clear consensus on what they think we 
ought to do about this problem.
  First of all, somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 percent of them 
support a balanced budget now, by the way. Not 5, 10 years, but right 
now.
  You ask them: Well, here are all the places where the government 
spends money. What would you like to cut?
  The answer to that question is: nothing. Literally nothing.
  The Pew Research folks do a poll on this every year, and in every 
single category a majority of people would rather keep the money the 
same or increase it, as opposed to decrease it.
  Of course, if you ask them what taxes they would like to increase, by 
and large, they don't want to increase taxes. It is interesting. If you 
can convince people that the taxes in question will not apply to them, 
for a brief moment they will be supportive of it. But then someone will 
come along and convince them that at some point it might apply to them, 
and then they oppose it.
  So our task as Members of Congress is to balance the budget without 
raising taxes or cutting spending. That, of course, is impossible. So 
what we have chosen to do is put off that decision for as long as is 
humanly possible.
  That is why we do not have a budget resolution. Any budget resolution 
this body could create would fail on probably multiple fronts of what 
the public expects. It wouldn't balance the budget. It would cut 
spending they didn't want to cut. It probably wouldn't raise taxes, 
coming from this majority, but if it did, it wouldn't be popular. So we 
have to start having an honest conversation about the budget.
  We hear in the Armed Services Committee all the time about all the 
needs, all the shortfalls, all the critical things we need to do. We 
argue about it and argue about it, but in 6 years the Republican 
majority has not put forward a plan to control mandatory spending. They 
say that is the problem. No plan to do that. Certainly, they haven't 
even considered the possibility of increasing revenue.
  If we are this serious--and we should be--about making sure that we 
have the funds necessary to provide an adequate national security, then 
we should stop cowering from the budget debate.
  Personally, I am all for raising taxes because I see the needs that 
the chairman and everybody else has described, and I am actually 
prepared to pay for them. So we need to do that. That overarching 
budget problem is what has put us in this mess.
  As we talk about this bill, as I said, it is $72 billion over the 
budget caps. Unless we get a vote to lift those budget caps--which I 
just mentioned is politically unpopular, which is why we haven't done 
it for the full 6 months we have been in session this year--then that 
$72 billion goes away and the Pentagon is back in chaos.
  So this may be a good bill. It may be solid. It doesn't have the 
backing of the budget.
  Let me finally suggest that there are some things that the Department 
of Defense could do. This is why the strategy is so important.
  Yes, the Obama administration waited until May of 2010. They didn't 
have 6 years of CRs and government shutdowns and threatened shutdowns 
and the changing threat environment that we have. They had a reasonably 
consistent set of problems. It was a set of problems, but they had the 
same Secretary of Defense from the previous administration. They had 
time to look at that.

[[Page H5542]]

  We need this strategy urgently because the big question is: Are we 
spending the money correctly? Is the Department of Defense spending the 
money in the right way? Do we have a strategy to figure out how we 
should prioritize?
  We don't. With this crushing budget environment, it is absolutely 
critical that we do. We need to consider the possibility, for instance, 
that we might be spending some money that we shouldn't be spending.
  I will often ask that question of the generals who come over and tell 
us how short they are of everything. I say: Well, where are we spending 
money, in your opinion, that we shouldn't be?
  They never answer the question. You cannot tell me in a $700 billion 
budget in a place as large as the Pentagon that there isn't somebody 
over there who knows to say: Look, we shouldn't be doing this.
  Just to give one suggestion, we have had the BRAC debate forever. We 
have had a shrinking military, yet we have maintained the same 
infrastructure. We have seen study after study from the Air Force and 
others about how much excess capacity they have and money that could be 
saved from doing that. But again this year, for, I submit, political 
reasons, BRAC is prohibited.
  So we need to get a lot smarter about how we are going to spend this 
money and a lot smarter about our budget if this bill is actually going 
to become reality.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, as usual, the gentleman from Washington makes a number 
of good points.
  We absolutely need to have national security based on a strategy and 
fund that strategy. There are many of us who would argue that is not 
what has happened in recent years.
  I would just point out it was not only President Obama, but also 
President Bush and President Clinton. None of them provided a national 
security strategy in the first year that they were in office. I have 
tremendous confidence in Secretary Mattis, among others on the national 
security team. I believe they are looking at these issues and will 
provide us with a strategy.
  The gentleman is also absolutely correct when he points out that the 
Defense Authorization bill is only one step in the process. There are 
many more steps to come.
  I think we will have a budget on this floor to vote on shortly. I 
also expect that we are going to have appropriations to vote on at some 
point in the coming weeks. I also believe that we are going to have the 
opportunity to vote on dealing with the sequestration caps, which, by 
the way, the administration and I think most of us in the House and I 
presume most in the other body as well are in favor of doing away with 
because they have not been successful in accomplishing the goal for 
which they were put in place.
  So there are clearly many more debates to have on other days. What we 
have this week on the floor before us is the Defense Authorization 
bill. And it is our obligation to authorize the things that the 
military needs.
  I want to go back to the point that Mr. Banks made a few minutes ago. 
These are life-and-death decisions. Our hearts break, our prayers go 
out to the families of the 15 marines and the one sailor who lost their 
lives Monday of this week in the plane crash in Mississippi, just as 
our hearts go out and our prayers continue for the family members of 
the seven sailors who lost their lives off of Japan a few weeks ago.
  What it reminds us is exactly what Mr. Banks said: this is a 
dangerous business, even on training mission, even on routine 
deployments. The men and women who volunteer to serve our country to 
protect us and to secure our freedoms deserve the very best our country 
can provide them. That is the goal of this bill: support the men and 
women who serve us and to further the national security of the United 
States.
  You have heard from both sides of the aisle about many good things 
that are in this bill. We are going to go through a lot of amendments 
over the next several days. But at the end of the day, the point is, 
even with the good, the bad, and the ugly that gets put in this bill, 
to support the men and women who serve by voting ``yes,'' and I hope my 
colleagues will do that.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chair, I ask that the following exchange of 
letters be included in the Record on H.R. 2810:

         Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of 
                                                  Representatives,
                                     Washington, DC, July 5, 2017.
     Hon. William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Thornberry: I write concerning H.R. 2810, the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, as 
     amended. There are certain provisions in the legislation that 
     fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
       However, in order to expedite this legislation for floor 
     consideration, the Committee will forgo action on this bill. 
     This, of course, is conditional on our mutual understanding 
     that forgoing consideration of the bill does not prejudice 
     the Committee with respect to the appointment of conferees or 
     to any future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters 
     contained in the bill or similar legislation that fall within 
     the Committee's Rule X jurisdiction. I request you urge the 
     Speaker to name members of the Committee to any conference 
     committee named to consider such provisions.
       Please place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the committee 
     report on H.R. 2810 and into the Congressional Record during 
     consideration of the measure on the House floor.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
                                                         Chairman.
                                  ____
                                  
                                      Committee on Armed Services,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                     Washington, DC, July 5, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Thank you for your letter regarding H.R. 
     2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2018. I agree that the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure has valid jurisdictional claims to certain 
     provisions in this important legislation, and I am most 
     appreciative of your decision not to request a referral in 
     the interest of expediting consideration of the bill. I agree 
     that by foregoing a sequential referral, the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure is not waiving its 
     jurisdiction. Further, this exchange of letters will be 
     included in the committee report on the bill.
           Sincerely,
                                    William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
                                                         Chairman.
                                  ____
                                  
                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Veterans' Affairs,

                                    Washington, DC, June 30, 2017.
     Hon. William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
     Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Thornberry: I write to confirm our mutual 
     understanding regarding H.R. 2810, the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. This legislation 
     contains subject matter within the jurisdiction of the 
     Veterans' Affairs Committee. However, in order to expedite 
     floor consideration of this important legislation, the 
     committee waives consideration of the bill.
       The Veterans' Affairs Committee takes this action only with 
     the understanding that the committee's jurisdictional 
     interests over this and similar legislation are in no way 
     diminished or altered.
       The committee also reserves the right to seek appointment 
     to any House-Senate conference on this legislation and 
     requests your support if such a request is made. Finally, I 
     would appreciate your including this letter in the 
     Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 2810 on the 
     House Floor. Thank you for your attention to these matters.
           Sincerely,
                                               David P. Roe, M.D.,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

  

                                      Committee on Armed Services,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                     Washington, DC, July 5, 2017.
     Hon. David P. Roe, M.D.
     Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Thank you for your letter regarding H.R. 
     2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2018. I agree that the Committee on Veterans' Affairs has 
     valid jurisdictional claims to certain provisions in this 
     important legislation, and I am most appreciative of your 
     decision not to request a referral in the interest of 
     expediting consideration of the bill. I agree that by 
     foregoing a sequential referral, the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs is not waiving its jurisdiction. Further, this 
     exchange of letters will be included in the committee report 
     on the bill.
           Sincerely,
                                    William M. ``Mac'' Thornberry,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of our nation's 
servicemembers, military families, and community colleges in support of 
the National Defense Authorization Act.

[[Page H5543]]

  The 2018 NDAA supports our men and women in uniform by providing a 
much deserved 2.4 percent pay increase and extending special pay and 
bonuses for servicemembers. This bill further supports military 
families by prohibiting the proposed reduction in inpatient care for 
military medical treatment facilities located outside the United 
States, and will provide up to $500 for a spouse's expense related to 
obtaining a license or certification in another state because of a 
military move.
  Our nation's military is one of the major economic drivers for the 
State of Texas. Texas is home to several of America's largest military 
bases, including Fort Hood in Killeen, Fort Bliss in El Paso, and Joint 
Base San Antonio. Texas is also home to major defense manufacturing 
facilities that help our servicemembers protect America and employ 
thousands of hardworking Texans.
  The NDAA includes a provision, Section 3507, that will authorize the 
U.S. Maritime Administration to designate and provide assistance to 
certain community colleges and workforce training centers as ``centers 
of excellence'' that provide valuable skills in the maritime sector.
  This language will help community colleges, like San Jacinto College, 
in our district in Harris County, Texas, that provides a modern, 
comprehensive training program for working in our maritime industry. 
San Jacinto College works closely with Houston's maritime community and 
the Port of Houston, and recently opened a state-of-the-art maritime 
training center last year.
  This provision is modeled after legislation I introduced with Rep. 
Robert Wittman earlier this year, the Domestic Maritime Centers of 
Excellence Act (H.R. 2286). I hope our colleagues will support our 
Centers of Excellence provision and ensure its inclusion when the NDAA 
reaches the President's desk.
  I ask all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in 
supporting the National Defense Authorization Act.
  The CHAIR. All time for general debate has expired.
  Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the 5-minute rule.
  In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by 
the Committee on Armed Services, printed in the bill, an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee 
Print 115-23, modified by the amendment printed in part A of House 
Report 115-212, is adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered 
as an original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the 5-
minute rule and shall be considered as read.
  The text of the bill, as amended, is a follows:

                               H.R. 2810

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018''.

     SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF 
                   CONTENTS.

       (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions 
     as follows:
       (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
       (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
       (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
     Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
       (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Report on acceleration of Increment 2 of the Warfighter 
              Information Network-Tactical.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Aircraft carriers.
Sec. 122. Procurement authority for icebreaker vessels.
Sec. 123. Limitation on availability of funds for procurement of 
              icebreaker vessels.
Sec. 124. Multiyear procurement authority for Virginia class submarine 
              program.
Sec. 125. Multiyear procurement authority for Arleigh Burke class 
              destroyers and associated systems.
Sec. 126. Limitation on availability of funds for Arleigh Burke class 
              destroyer.
Sec. 127. Extensions of authorities relating to construction of certain 
              vessels.
Sec. 128. Multiyear procurement authority for V-22 Osprey aircraft.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Streamlining acquisition of intercontinental ballistic 
              missile security capability.
Sec. 132. Limitation on selection of single contractor for C-130H 
              avionics modernization program increment 2.
Sec. 133. Limitation on availability of funds for EC-130H Compass Call 
              recapitalization program.
Sec. 134. Cost-benefit analysis of upgrades to MQ-9 Reaper aircraft.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. Authority for procurement of economic order quantities for 
              the F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 142. Limitation on demilitarization of certain cluster munitions.
Sec. 143. Reinstatement of requirement to preserve certain C-5 
              aircraft.
Sec. 144. Requirement that certain aircraft and unmanned aerial 
              vehicles use specified standard data link.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, And Limitations

Sec. 211. Cost controls for presidential aircraft recapitalization 
              program.
Sec. 212. Capital investment authority.
Sec. 213. Modification of authority to award prizes for advanced 
              technology achievements.
Sec. 214. Critical technologies for Columbia class submarine.
Sec. 215. Joint Hypersonics Transition Office.
Sec. 216. Hypersonic airbreathing weapons capabilities.
Sec. 217. Limitation on availability of funds for MQ-25 unmanned air 
              system.
Sec. 218. Limitation on availability of funds for contract writing 
              systems.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Codification of and improvements to Department of Defense 
              clearinghouse to coordinate Department review of 
              applications for certain projects that may have adverse 
              impact on military operations and readiness.
Sec. 312. Energy performance goals and master plan.
Sec. 313. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Umatilla Chemical Depot, 
              Oregon.
Sec. 314. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
              penalty in connection with Longhorn Army Ammunition 
              Plant, Texas.
Sec. 315. Department of Defense cleanup and removal of petroleum, oil, 
              and lubricant associated with the Prinz Eugen.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Reauthorization of multi-trades demonstration project.
Sec. 322. Guidance regarding use of organic industrial base.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Quarterly reports on personnel and unit readiness.
Sec. 332. Biennial report on core depot-level maintenance and repair 
              capability.
Sec. 333. Annual report on personnel, training, and equipment needs of 
              non-federalized National Guard.
Sec. 334. Annual report on military working dogs used by the Department 
              of Defense.
Sec. 335. Annual briefings on Army explosive ordnance disposal.
Sec. 336. Report on effects of climate change on Department of Defense.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Explosive safety board.
Sec. 342. Department of Defense support for military service memorials 
              and museums that highlight the role of women in the Armed 
              Forces.
Sec. 343. Limitation on availability of funds for advanced skills 
              management software system of the Navy.
Sec. 344. Cost-benefit analysis of uniform specifications for Afghan 
              military or security forces.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
              levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
              reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2018 limitation on number of non-dual status 
              technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
              active duty for operational support.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

[[Page H5544]]

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

          Subtitle A--Regular and Reserve Component Management

Sec. 501. Modification of requirements relating to conversion of 
              certain military technician (dual status) positions to 
              civilian positions.
Sec. 502. Pilot program on use of retired senior enlisted members of 
              the Army National Guard as Army National Guard 
              recruiters.
Sec. 503. Equal treatment of orders to serve on active duty under 
              section 12304a and 12304b of title 10, United States 
              Code.
Sec. 504. Direct employment pilot program for members of the National 
              Guard and Reserve.

  Subtitle B--General Service Authorities and Correction of Military 
                                Records

Sec. 511. Consideration of additional medical evidence by Boards for 
              the Correction of Military Records and liberal 
              consideration of evidence relating to post-traumatic 
              stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 512. Public availability of information related to disposition of 
              claims regarding discharge or release of members of the 
              Armed Forces when the claims involve sexual assault.
Sec. 513. Pilot program on use of video teleconferencing technology by 
              boards for the correction of military records and 
              discharge review boards.
Sec. 514. Inclusion of specific email address block on Certificate of 
              Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214).
Sec. 515. Provision of information on naturalization through military 
              service.

          Subtitle C--Military Justice and Other Legal Issues

Sec. 521. Clarifying amendments related to the Uniform Code of Military 
              Justice reform by the Military Justice Act of 2016.
Sec. 522. Minimum confinement period required for conviction of certain 
              sex-related offenses committed by members of the Armed 
              Forces.
Sec. 523. Prohibition on wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate 
              visual images.
Sec. 524. Information for the Special Victims' Counsel or Victims' 
              Legal Counsel.
Sec. 525. Special Victims' Counsel training regarding the unique 
              challenges often faced by male victims of sexual assault.
Sec. 526. Garnishment to satisfy judgment rendered for physically, 
              sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
Sec. 527. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              military sexual harassment and incidents involving 
              nonconsensual distribution of private sexual images.
Sec. 528. Inclusion of information in annual SAPRO reports regarding 
              sexual assaults committed by a member of the Armed Forces 
              against the member's spouse or other family member.
Sec. 529. Notification of members of the Armed Forces undergoing 
              certain administrative separations of potential 
              eligibility for veterans benefits.
Sec. 530. Consistent access to Special Victims' Counsel for former 
              dependents of members of the Armed Forces.

   Subtitle D--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 541. Prohibition on release of military service academy graduates 
              to participate in professional athletics.
Sec. 542. ROTC Cyber Institutes at the senior military colleges.
Sec. 543. Lieutenant Henry Ossian Flipper Leadership Scholarship 
              Program.

Subtitle E--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

Sec. 551. Continuation of authority to assist local educational 
              agencies that benefit dependents of members of the Armed 
              Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 552. Education for dependents of certain retired members of the 
              Armed Forces.
Sec. 553. Codification of authority to conduct family support programs 
              for immediate family members of members of the Armed 
              Forces assigned to special operations forces.
Sec. 554. Reimbursement for State licensure and certification costs of 
              a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces arising from 
              relocation to another State.

                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 561. Replacement of military decorations at the request of 
              relatives of deceased members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 562. Congressional Defense Service Medal.
Sec. 563. Limitations on authority to revoke certain military 
              decorations awarded to members of the Armed Forces.

          Subtitle G--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 571. Expansion of United States Air Force Institute of Technology 
              enrollment authority to include civilian employees of the 
              homeland security industry.
Sec. 572. Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.
Sec. 573. Voter registration.
Sec. 574. Sense of Congress regarding section 504 of title 10, United 
              States Code, on existing authority of the Department of 
              Defense to enlist individuals, not otherwise eligible for 
              enlistment, whose enlistment is vital to the national 
              interest.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Annual adjustment of basic monthly pay.
Sec. 602. Limitation on basic allowance for housing modification 
              authority for members of the uniformed services residing 
              in Military Housing Privatization Initiative housing.
Sec. 603. Housing treatment for certain members of the Armed Forces, 
              and their spouses and other dependents, undergoing a 
              permanent change of station within the United States.
Sec. 604. Per diem allowance policies.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
              authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
              nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
              consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
              authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of 
              other title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Reimbursement for State licensure and certification costs of 
              a member of the Armed Forces arising from separation from 
              the Armed Forces.
Sec. 617. Increase in maximum amount of aviation bonus for 12-month 
              period of obligated service.
Sec. 618. Technical and clerical amendments relating to 2008 
              consolidation of certain special pay authorities.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Findings and sense of Congress regarding the Special Survivor 
              Indemnity Allowance.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Land conveyance authority, Army and Air Force Exchange 
              Service property, Dallas, Texas.
Sec. 632. Advisory boards regarding military commissaries and 
              exchanges.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Physical examinations for members of a reserve component who 
              are separating from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 702. Mental health examinations before members separate from the 
              Armed Forces.
Sec. 703. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for certain members of 
              the Armed Forces.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Clarification of roles of commanders of military medical 
              treatment facilities and Surgeons General.
Sec. 712. Maintenance of inpatient capabilities of military medical 
              treatment facilities located outside the United States.
Sec. 713. Regular update of prescription drug pricing standard under 
              TRICARE retail pharmacy program.
Sec. 714. Residency requirements for podiatrists.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 721. One year extension of pilot program for prescription drug 
              acquisition cost parity in the TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits 
              Program.
Sec. 722. Pilot program on health care assistance system.
Sec. 723. Research of chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
Sec. 724. Sense of Congress on eligibility of victims of acts of terror 
              for evaluation and treatment at military treatment 
              facilities.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

     Subtitle A--Defense Acquisition Streamlining and Transparency

                Part I--Acquisition System Streamlining

Sec. 801. Procurement through online marketplaces.
Sec. 802. Performance of incurred cost audits.
Sec. 803. Modifications to cost or pricing data and reporting 
              requirements.

           Part II--Early Investments in Acquisition Programs

Sec. 811. Requirement to emphasize reliability and maintainability in 
              weapon system design.
Sec. 812. Licensing of appropriate intellectual property to support 
              major weapon systems.

[[Page H5545]]

Sec. 813. Management of intellectual property matters within the 
              Department of Defense.
Sec. 814. Improvement of planning for acquisition of services.
Sec. 815. Improvements to test and evaluation processes and tools.

              Part III--Acquisition Workforce Improvements

Sec. 821. Enhancements to the civilian program management workforce.
Sec. 822. Improvements to the hiring and training of the acquisition 
              workforce.
Sec. 823. Extension and modifications to acquisition demonstration 
              project.
Sec. 824. Acquisition positions in the Offices of the Secretaries of 
              the Military Departments.

                   Part IV--Transparency Improvements

Sec. 831. Transparency of defense business system data.
Sec. 832. Major defense acquisition programs: display of budget 
              information.
Sec. 833. Enhancements to transparency in test and evaluation processes 
              and data.

     Subtitle B--Streamlining of Defense Acquisition Statutes and 
                              Regulations

Sec. 841. Modifications to the advisory panel on streamlining and 
              codifying acquisition regulations.
Sec. 842. Extension of maximum duration of fuel storage contracts.
Sec. 843. Exception for business operations from requirement to accept 
              $1 coins.
Sec. 844. Repeal of expired pilot program.

Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 851. Limitation on unilateral definitization.
Sec. 852. Codification of requirements pertaining to assessment, 
              management, and control of operating and support costs 
              for major weapon systems.
Sec. 853. Use of program income by eligible entities that carry out 
              procurement technical assistance programs.
Sec. 854. Amendment to sustainment reviews.
Sec. 855. Clarification to other transaction authority.
Sec. 856. Clarifying the use of lowest price technically acceptable 
              source selection process.
Sec. 857. Amendment to nontraditional and small contractor innovation 
              prototyping program.
Sec. 858. Modification to annual meeting requirement of Configuration 
              Steering Boards.
Sec. 859. Change to definition of subcontract in certain circumstances.
Sec. 860. Amendment relating to applicability of inflation adjustments.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 861. Exemption from design-build selection procedures.
Sec. 862. Requirement that certain ship components be manufactured in 
              the national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 863. Procurement of aviation critical safety items.
Sec. 864. Milestones and timelines for contracts for foreign military 
              sales.
Sec. 865. Notification requirement for certain contracts for audit 
              services.
Sec. 866. Training in acquisition of commercial items.
Sec. 867. Notice of cost-free Federal procurement technical assistance 
              in connection with registration of small business 
              concerns on procurement websites of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 868. Comptroller General report on contractor business system 
              requirements.
Sec. 869. Standard guidelines for evaluation of requirements for 
              services contracts.
Sec. 870. Temporary limitation on aggregate annual amount available for 
              contract services.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

 Subtitle A--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                               Generally

Sec. 901. Responsibility of the Chief Information Officer of the 
              Department of Defense for risk management activities 
              regarding supply chain for information technology 
              systems.
Sec. 902. Repeal of Office of Corrosion Policy and Oversight.
Sec. 903. Designation of corrosion control and prevention executives 
              for the military departments.
Sec. 904. Maintaining civilian workforce capabilities to sustain 
              readiness, the all volunteer force, and operational 
              effectiveness.

          Subtitle B--Designation of the Navy and Marine Corps

Sec. 911. Redesignation of the Department of the Navy as the Department 
              of the Navy and Marine Corps.
Sec. 912. Conforming amendments to title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 913. Other provisions of law and other references.
Sec. 914. Effective date.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 921. Transition of the Office of the Secretary of Defense to 
              reflect establishment of positions of Under Secretary of 
              Defense for Research and Engineering, Under Secretary of 
              Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and Chief 
              Management Officer.
Sec. 922. Extension of deadlines for reporting and briefing 
              requirements for Commission on the National Defense 
              Strategy for the United States.
Sec. 923. Briefing on force management level policy.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Preparation of consolidated corrective action plan and 
              implementation of centralized reporting system.
Sec. 1003. Additional requirements relating to Department of Defense 
              audits.

                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1011. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1012. National Defense Sealift Fund: construction of national 
              icebreaker vessels.
Sec. 1013. Use of National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund for multiyear 
              procurement of certain critical components.
Sec. 1014. Restrictions on the overhaul and repair of vessels in 
              foreign shipyards.
Sec. 1015. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
              Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships.
Sec. 1016. Policy of the United States on minimum number of battle 
              force ships.

                      Subtitle C--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1021. Termination of requirement to submit annual budget 
              justification display for Department of Defense combating 
              terrorism program.
Sec. 1022. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States.
Sec. 1023. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify 
              facilities in the United States to house detainees 
              transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
              Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1024. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
              individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1025. Biannual report on support of special operations to combat 
              terrorism.

         Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1031. Limitation on expenditure of funds for emergency and 
              extraordinary expenses for intelligence and counter-
              intelligence activities and representation allowances.
Sec. 1032. Modifications to humanitarian demining assistance 
              authorities.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on aircraft 
              traveling through channel routes.
Sec. 1034. Limitation on divestment of U-2 or RQ-4 aircraft.
Sec. 1035. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy 
              maritime mine countermeasures platforms.
Sec. 1036. Restriction on use of certain funds pending solicitation of 
              bids for Western Pacific dry dock.
Sec. 1037. National Guard flyovers of public events.
Sec. 1038. Transfer of funds to World War I Centennial Commission.
Sec. 1039. Rule of construction regarding use of Department of Defense 
              funding of a border wall.

                    Subtitle E--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Elimination of reporting requirements terminated after 
              November 25, 2017, pursuant to section 1080 of the 
              National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
Sec. 1052. Report on Department of Defense arctic capability and 
              resource gaps.
Sec. 1053. Review and assessment of Department of Defense personnel 
              recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery 
              mechanisms.
Sec. 1054. Mine warfare readiness inspection plan and report.
Sec. 1055. Report on civilian casualties from Department of Defense 
              strikes.
Sec. 1056. Reports on infrastructure and capabilities of Lajes Field, 
              Portugal.
Sec. 1057. Report on Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex modernization.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1061. Technical, conforming, and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1062. Workforce issues for relocation of Marines to Guam.
Sec. 1063. Protection of Second Amendment Rights of Military Families.
Sec. 1064. Transfer of surplus firearms to corporation for the 
              promotion of rifle practice and firearms safety.
Sec. 1065. National Guard accessibility to Department of Defense issued 
              unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 1066. Sense of Congress regarding aircraft carriers.
Sec. 1067. Notice to Congress of terms of Department of Defense 
              settlement agreements.
Sec. 1068. Sense of Congress recognizing the United States Navy 
              Seabees.

[[Page H5546]]

Sec. 1069. Recognition of the United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 1070. Sense of Congress regarding World War I.
Sec. 1071. Findings and sense of Congress regarding the National Guard 
              Youth Challenge Program.
Sec. 1072. Sense of Congress regarding National Purple Heart 
              Recognition Day.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Extension of direct hire authority for domestic Defense 
              Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test 
              Facilities Base.
Sec. 1102. Extension of authority to provide voluntary separation 
              incentive pay for civilian employees of the Department of 
              Defense.
Sec. 1103. Additional Department of Defense science and technology 
              reinvention laboratories.
Sec. 1104. One year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
              on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for 
              Federal civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1105. Appointment of retired members of the armed forces to 
              positions in or under the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1106. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in 
              the Department of Defense workforce.
Sec. 1107. Extension of authority for temporary personnel flexibilities 
              for domestic defense industrial base facilities and Major 
              Range and Test Facilities Base civilian personnel.
Sec. 1108. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
              allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian 
              personnel on official duty in a combat zone.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition 
              forces supporting certain United States military 
              operations.
Sec. 1202. Modification to Special Defense Acquisition Fund.
Sec. 1203. Modification to ministry of defense advisor authority.
Sec. 1204. Modification of authority to build capacity of foreign 
              security forces.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of authority on training for 
              Eastern European national military forces in the course 
              of multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1206. Extension of participation in and support of the Inter-
              American Defense College.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
              provide defense services to the military and security 
              forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Report on United States strategy in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
              certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
              States military operations.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Report on United States strategy in Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
              assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
              Levant.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support 
              operations and activities of the Office of Security 
              Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Sense of Congress on threats posed by the Government of 
              Iran.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
              United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
              of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Statement of policy on the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1234. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
              Initiative.
Sec. 1235. Limitation on availability of funds relating to 
              implementation of the Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1236. Sense of Congress on importance of nuclear capabilities of 
              NATO.
Sec. 1237. Sense of Congress on support for Georgia.
Sec. 1238. Sense of Congress on support for Estonia, Latvia, and 
              Lithuania.

Subtitle E--Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation 
                              Act of 2017

Sec. 1241. Short title.
Sec. 1242. Findings.
Sec. 1243. Compliance enforcement regarding Russian violations of the 
              INF Treaty.
Sec. 1244. Development of INF range ground-launched missile system.
Sec. 1245. Notification requirement related to Russian Federation 
              development of noncompliant systems and United States 
              actions regarding material breach of INF Treaty by the 
              Russian Federation.
Sec. 1246. Limitation on availability of funds to extend the 
              implementation of the New START Treaty.
Sec. 1247. Review of RS-26 ballistic missile.
Sec. 1248. Definitions.

   Subtitle F--Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act of 2017

Sec. 1251. Short title.
Sec. 1252. Findings and sense of Congress.
Sec. 1253. Strategy to counter threats by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1254. Strategy to increase conventional precision strike weapon 
              stockpiles in the United States European Command's areas 
              of responsibility.
Sec. 1255. Plan to counter the military capabilities of the Russian 
              Federation.
Sec. 1256. Plan to increase cyber and information operations, 
              deterrence, and defense.
Sec. 1257. Sense of Congress on enhancing maritime capabilities.
Sec. 1258. Plan to reduce the risks of miscalculation and unintended 
              consequences that could precipitate a nuclear war.
Sec. 1259. Definitions.

      Subtitle G--Matters Relating to the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1261. Sense of Congress on the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1262. Report on strategy to prioritize United States defense 
              interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1263. Assessment of United States force posture and basing needs 
              in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1264. Extended deterrence commitment to the Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1265. Authorization of appropriations to meet United States 
              financial obligations under Compact of Free Association 
              with Palau.
Sec. 1266. Sense of Congress reaffirming security commitments to the 
              Governments of Japan and South Korea and trilateral 
              cooperation between the United States, Japan, and South 
              Korea.
Sec. 1267. Sense of Congress on freedom of navigation operations in the 
              South China Sea.
Sec. 1268. Sense of Congress on strengthening the defense of Taiwan.
Sec. 1269. Sense of Congress on the Association of Southeast Asian 
              Nations.
Sec. 1270. Sense of Congress on reaffirming the importance of the 
              United States-Australia defense alliance.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1271. NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence.
Sec. 1272. NATO Strategic Communications Center of Excellence.
Sec. 1273. Security and stability strategy for Somalia.
Sec. 1274. Assessment of Global Theater Security Cooperation Management 
              Information System.
Sec. 1275. Future years plan for the European Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1276. Extension of authority to enter into agreements with 
              participating countries in the American, British, 
              Canadian, and Australian Armies' Program.
Sec. 1277. Security strategy for Yemen.
Sec. 1278. Limitation on transfer of excess defense articles that are 
              high mobility multi-purpose wheeled vehicles.
Sec. 1279. Department of Defense program to protect United States 
              students against foreign agents.
Sec. 1280. Extension of United States-Israel anti-tunnel cooperation 
              authority.
Sec. 1281. Anticorruption strategy.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of cooperative threat reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1406. National Defense Sealift Fund.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
              Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
              Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health 
              Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
              Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
              appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.

[[Page H5547]]

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1511. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1512. Special transfer authority.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1522. Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

       Subtitle A--Management and Organization of Space Programs

Sec. 1601. Establishment of Space Corps in the Department of the Air 
              Force.
Sec. 1602. Establishment of subordinate unified command of the United 
              States Strategic Command.

                      Subtitle B--Space Activities

Sec. 1611. Codification, extension, and modification of limitation on 
              construction on United States territory of satellite 
              positioning ground monitoring stations of foreign 
              governments.
Sec. 1612. Foreign commercial satellite services: cybersecurity threats 
              and launches.
Sec. 1613. Extension of pilot program on commercial weather data.
Sec. 1614. Conditional transfer of acquisition and funding authority of 
              certain weather missions to National Reconnaissance 
              Office.
Sec. 1615. Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle modernization and 
              sustainment of assured access to space.
Sec. 1616. Commercial satellite communications pathfinder program.
Sec. 1617. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
              navigation, and timing capabilities of Global Positioning 
              System.
Sec. 1618. Enhancement of positioning, navigation, and timing capacity.
Sec. 1619. Establishment of Space Flag training event.
Sec. 1620. Report on operational and contingency plans for loss or 
              degradation of space capabilities.
Sec. 1621. Limitation on availability of funding for Joint Space 
              Operations Center mission system.
Sec. 1622. Limitation on availability of funds relating to advanced 
              extremely high frequency program.

  Subtitle C--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1631. Security clearances for facilities of certain contractors.
Sec. 1632. Extension of authority to engage in certain commercial 
              activities.
Sec. 1633. Submission of audits of commercial activity funds.
Sec. 1634. Clarification of annual briefing on the intelligence, 
              surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of the 
              combatant commands.
Sec. 1635. Review of support provided by Defense intelligence elements 
              to acquisition activities of the Department.
Sec. 1636. Limitation on availability of funds for certain offensive 
              counterintelligence activities.
Sec. 1637. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain relocation 
              activities for NATO intelligence fusion center.
Sec. 1638. Establishment of chairman's controlled activity within Joint 
              Staff for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
Sec. 1639. Sense of Congress and report on geospatial commercial 
              activities for basic and applied research and 
              development.
Sec. 1640. Department of Defense Counterintelligence polygraph program.
Sec. 1641. Security clearance for dual-nationals.
Sec. 1642. Suspension or revocation of security clearances based on 
              unlawful or inappropriate contacts with representatives 
              of a foreign government.

                 Subtitle D--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1651. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
              operations and cyber weapons.
Sec. 1652. Modification to quarterly cyber operations briefings.
Sec. 1653. Cyber Scholarship Program.
Sec. 1654. Plan to increase cyber and information operations, 
              deterrence, and defense.
Sec. 1655. Report on termination of dual-hat arrangement for Commander 
              of the United States Cyber Command.

                       Subtitle E--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Notifications regarding dual-capable F-35A aircraft.
Sec. 1662. Oversight of delayed acquisition programs by Council on 
              Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, 
              and Communications System.
Sec. 1663. Establishment of Nuclear Command and Control Intelligence 
              Fusion Center.
Sec. 1664. Security of nuclear command, control, and communications 
              system from commercial dependencies.
Sec. 1665. Oversight of aerial-layer programs by Council on Oversight 
              of the National Leadership Command, Control, and 
              Communications System.
Sec. 1666. Security classification guide for programs relating to 
              nuclear command, control, and communications and nuclear 
              deterrence.
Sec. 1667. Evaluation and enhanced security of supply chain for nuclear 
              command, control, and communications and continuity of 
              government programs.
Sec. 1668. Limitation on pursuit of certain command and control 
              concept.
Sec. 1669. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
              ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1670. Sense of Congress on importance of independent nuclear 
              deterrent of United Kingdom.
Sec. 1671. Prohibition on availability of funds for mobile variant of 
              ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1672. Report on impacts of nuclear proliferation.

                  Subtitle F--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1681. Administration of missile defense and defeat programs.
Sec. 1682. Preservation of the ballistic missile defense capacity of 
              the Army.
Sec. 1683. Modernization of Army lower tier air and missile defense 
              sensor.
Sec. 1684. Enhancement of operational test and evaluation of ballistic 
              missile defense system.
Sec. 1685. Defense of Hawaii from North Korean ballistic missile 
              attack.
Sec. 1686. Aegis Ashore anti-air warfare capability.
Sec. 1687. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system, Israeli 
              cooperative missile defense program codevelopment and 
              coproduction, and Arrow 3 testing.
Sec. 1688. Review of proposed ground-based midcourse defense system 
              contract.
Sec. 1689. Sense of Congress and plan for development of space-based 
              sensor layer for ballistic missile defense.
Sec. 1690. Sense of Congress and plan for development of space-based 
              ballistic missile intercept layer.
Sec. 1691. Limitation on availability of funds for ground-based 
              midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
              defense system.
Sec. 1692. Conventional prompt global strike weapons system.
Sec. 1693. Determination of location of continental United States 
              interceptor site.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1695. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
              aircraft.
Sec. 1696. Use of commercial items in Distributed Common Ground 
              Systems.
Sec. 1697. Independent assessment of costs relating to ammonium 
              perchlorate.
Sec. 1698. Limitation and business case analysis regarding ammonium 
              perchlorate.
Sec. 1699. Industrial base for large solid rocket motors and related 
              technologies.
Sec. 1699A. Pilot program on enhancing information sharing for security 
              of supply chain.
Sec. 1699B. Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States From 
              Electromagnetic Pulse Attacks and Events.
Sec. 1699C. Pilot program on electromagnetic spectrum mapping.

       TITLE XVII--MATTERS RELATING TO SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT

  Subtitle A--Improving Transparency and Clarity for Small Businesses

Sec. 1701. Improving reporting on small business goals.
Sec. 1702. Uniformity in procurement terminology.
Sec. 1703. Responsibilities of commercial market representatives.
Sec. 1704. Responsibilities of Business Opportunity Specialists.

                 Subtitle B--Women's Business Programs

Sec. 1711. Office of Women's Business Ownership.
Sec. 1712. Women's Business Center Program.
Sec. 1713. Matching requirements under Women's Business Center Program.

                       Subtitle C--SCORE Program

Sec. 1721. SCORE reauthorization.
Sec. 1722. SCORE program.
Sec. 1723. Online component.
Sec. 1724. Study and report on the future role of the SCORE program.
Sec. 1725. Technical and conforming amendments.

      Subtitle D--Small Business Development Centers Improvements

Sec. 1731. Use of authorized entrepreneurial development programs.
Sec. 1732. Marketing of services.
Sec. 1733. Data collection.
Sec. 1734. Fees from private partnerships and cosponsorships.
Sec. 1735. Equity for small business development centers.
Sec. 1736. Confidentiality requirements.
Sec. 1737. Limitation on award of grants to small business development 
              centers.

                       Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

Sec. 1741. Modification of past performance pilot program to include 
              consideration of past performance with allies of the 
              United States.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
              specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.

[[Page H5548]]

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2014 project.
Sec. 2106. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorization of certain Fiscal Year 2014 
              project.
Sec. 2108. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2015 
              projects.
Sec. 2109. Additional authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 2000, 
              2005, 2006, and 2007 projects.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations for certain Fiscal Year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2015 
              projects.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2017 projects.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
              projects.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy resiliency and conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2017 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2015 
              projects.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2017 projects.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorizations of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
              construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
              acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain Fiscal Year 
              2015 project.
Sec. 2612. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2014 
              projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain Fiscal Year 2015 
              projects.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
              closure activities funded through Department of Defense 
              base closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
              closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

Sec. 2801. Elimination of written notice requirement for military 
              construction activities and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2802. Modification of thresholds applicable to unspecified minor 
              construction projects.
Sec. 2803. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
              and maintenance funds for construction projects outside 
              the United States.
Sec. 2804. Use of operation and maintenance funds for military 
              construction projects to replace facilities damaged or 
              destroyed by natural disasters or terrorism incidents.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Elimination of written notice requirement for military real 
              property transactions and reliance on electronic 
              submission of notifications and reports.
Sec. 2812. Clarification of applicability of fair market value 
              consideration in grants of easements on military lands 
              for rights-of-way.
Sec. 2813. Criteria for exchanges of property at military 
              installations.
Sec. 2814. Prohibiting use of updated assessment of public schools on 
              Department of Defense installations to supersede funding 
              of certain projects.
Sec. 2815. Requirements for window fall prevention devices in military 
              family housing.
Sec. 2816. Authorizing reimbursement of States for costs of suppressing 
              wildfires caused by Department of Defense activities on 
              State lands; restoration of lands of other Federal 
              agencies for damage caused by Department of Defense 
              vehicle mishaps.
Sec. 2817. Prohibiting collection of additional amounts from members 
              living in units under Military Housing Privatization 
              Initiative.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2821. Land exchange, Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant, 
              Sunnyvale, California.
Sec. 2822. Land conveyance, Naval Ship Repair Facility, Guam.
Sec. 2823. Lease of real property to the United States Naval Academy 
              Alumni Association and Naval Academy Foundation at United 
              States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland.
Sec. 2824. Land Conveyance, Natick Soldier Systems Center, 
              Massachusetts.
Sec. 2825. Imposition of additional conditions on land conveyance, 
              Castner Range, Fort Bliss, Texas.
Sec. 2826. Land conveyance, Wasatch-Cache National Forest, Rich County, 
              Utah.
Sec. 2827. Land conveyance, former missile alert facility known as 
              Quebec-01, Laramie County, Wyoming.

                 Subtitle D--Military Land Withdrawals

Sec. 2831. Indefinite duration of certain military land withdrawals and 
              reservations and improved management of withdrawn and 
              reserved lands.
Sec. 2832. Temporary segregation from public land laws of property 
              subject to proposed military land withdrawal; temporary 
              use permits and transfers of small parcels of land 
              between Departments of Interior and military departments; 
              more efficient surveying of lands.

         Subtitle E--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2841. Modification of prohibition on transfer of veterans memorial 
              objects to foreign governments without specific 
              authorization in law.
Sec. 2842. Recognition of the National Museum of World War II Aviation.
Sec. 2843. Principal office of Aviation Hall of Fame.

               Subtitle F--Shiloh National Military Park

Sec. 2851. Short title.
Sec. 2852. Definitions.
Sec. 2853. Areas to be added to Shiloh National Military Park.
Sec. 2854. Establishment of affiliated area.
Sec. 2855. Private Property Protection.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 2861. Modification of Department of Defense guidance on use of 
              airfield pavement markings.
Sec. 2862. Authority of Chief Operating Officer of Armed Forces 
              Retirement Home to acquire and lease property.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition project.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
              projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
              acquisition project.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2906. Extension of authorization of certain Fiscal Year 2015 
              projects.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.

[[Page H5549]]

Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Nuclear security enterprise infrastructure recapitalization 
              and repair.
Sec. 3112. Incorporation of integrated surety architecture in 
              transportation.
Sec. 3113. Cost estimates for life extension program and major 
              alteration projects.
Sec. 3114. Budget requests and certification regarding nuclear weapons 
              dismantlement.
Sec. 3115. Improved information relating to defense nuclear 
              nonproliferation research and development program.
Sec. 3116. Research and development of advanced naval reactor fuel 
              based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3117. Prohibition on availability of funds for programs in Russian 
              Federation.
Sec. 3118. National Nuclear Security Administration pay and performance 
              system.
Sec. 3119. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3120. Modification of minor construction threshold for plant 
              projects.
Sec. 3121. Design competition.
Sec. 3122. Department of Energy Counterintelligence polygraph program.
Sec. 3123. Security clearance for dual-nationals employed by National 
              Nuclear Security Agency.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Modification of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 3132. Assessment of management and operating contracts of national 
              security laboratories.
Sec. 3133. Evaluation of classification of certain defense nuclear 
              waste.
Sec. 3134. Report on Critical Decision-1 on Material Staging Facility 
              project.
Sec. 3135. Modification to stockpile stewardship, management, and 
              responsiveness plan.
Sec. 3136. Improved reporting for anti-smuggling radiation detection 
              systems.
Sec. 3137. Annual selected acquisition reports on certain hardware 
              relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation.
Sec. 3138. Assessment of design trade options of W80-4 warhead.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946.
Sec. 3503. Maritime Security Fleet Program; restriction on operation 
              for new entrants.
Sec. 3504. Codification of sections relating to acquisition, charter, 
              and requisition of vessels.
Sec. 3505. Assistance for small shipyards.
Sec. 3506. Report on sexual assault victim recovery in the Coast Guard.
Sec. 3507. Centers of excellence.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for overseas contingency operations for base 
              requirements.

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
              contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
              contingency operations for base requirements.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
              operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
              operations for base requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4403. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations for 
              base requirements.

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

     SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

       In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of 
     title 10, United States Code.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

     SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the 
     Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

     SEC. 111. REPORT ON ACCELERATION OF INCREMENT 2 OF THE 
                   WARFIGHTER INFORMATION NETWORK-TACTICAL.

       (a) Report.--Not later than January 30, 2018, the Secretary 
     of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on options for the acceleration of the 
     procurement and fielding of Increment 2 of the Warfighter 
     Information Network-Tactical program of the Army (referred to 
     in this section as ``WIN-T Increment 2'').
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An estimate of the level of funding required to procure 
     a sufficient quantity of WIN-T Increment 2 components to 
     field thirty Brigade Combat Teams or equivalent units in the 
     period beginning with fiscal year 2018 and ending with fiscal 
     year 2022.
       (2) A plan for fielding WIN-T Increment 2 to all Armored 
     Brigade Combat Teams of the Army and associated combat 
     vehicles, including the Armored Multipurpose Vehicle.
       (3) A plan for integrating WIN-T Increment 2 on the Stryker 
     combat vehicles fielded to Stryker Brigade Combat Teams of 
     the Army.
       (4) A list of potential upgrades to WIN-T Increment 2 that 
     may improve program capabilities, including size, weight, and 
     complexity, and the impact of these improvements on the cost 
     of the program.
       (5) Options for fielding an Expeditionary Command Post 
     capability that effectively integrates WIN-T Increment 2 and 
     command post infrastructure.
       (6) A detailed plan for upgrading the existing WIN-T 
     Increment 1 system to the latest WIN-T Increment 2 
     configuration that includes--
       (A) an estimate of the level of funding required to 
     implement the plan; and
       (B) the effect of the plan on the fielding of mobile 
     mission command to the reserve components of the Army.
       (7) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

     SEC. 121. AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

       (a) Sense of Congress on Increase in Number of Operational 
     Aircraft Carriers.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (A) Aircraft carriers are an essential element of the 
     Navy's core missions of forward presence, sea control, 
     ensuring safe sea lanes, and power projection, and provide 
     the flexibility and versatility necessary for the execution 
     of a wide range of additional missions.
       (B) Forward airpower is integral to the security and joint 
     forces operations of the United States. Carriers play a 
     central role in delivering forward airpower from sovereign 
     territory of the United States in both permissive and 
     nonpermissive environments.
       (C) Aircraft carriers provide the Nation the ability to 
     rapidly and decisively respond to national threats, to 
     conduct worldwide, on-station diplomacy, and to deter threats 
     to allies, partners, and friends of the United States.
       (D) Since the end of the cold war, aircraft carrier 
     deployments have increased while the aircraft carrier force 
     structure has declined.
       (E) Due to the increased array of complex threats across 
     the globe, the Navy's aircraft carriers are operating at 
     maximum capacity, increasing deployment lengths and 
     decreasing maintenance periods in order to meet operational 
     requirements.
       (F) To meet global peacetime and wartime requirements, the 
     Navy has indicated a requirement to maintain two aircraft 
     carriers deployed overseas and to have three additional 
     aircraft carriers capable of deploying within 90 days. 
     However, the Navy has indicated that the existing aircraft 
     carrier force structure cannot support these military 
     requirements.
       (G) Despite the requirement to maintain an aircraft carrier 
     strike group in both the United States Central Command and 
     the United States Pacific Command, the Navy has been unable 
     to generate sufficient capacity to support combatant 
     commanders and has developed significant carrier gaps in 
     these critical areas.
       (H) The continued use of a diminished aircraft carrier 
     force structure has resulted in extensive maintenance 
     availabilities which typically exceed program costs and 
     increase time in shipyards. These expansive maintenance 
     availabilities exacerbate existing carrier gaps.
       (I) Because of maintenance overhaul extensions, the Navy is 
     truncating basic aircraft carrier training to expedite the 
     deployment of available aircraft carriers. Limiting aircraft 
     carrier training decreases operational capabilities and 
     increases risks to sailors.
       (J) Despite the objections of the Navy, the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
     directed the Navy on August 7, 2015, to perform shock trials 
     on the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78). The Assistant Deputy 
     Chief of Naval Operations for Operations, Plans and Strategy 
     indicated that this action could delay the introduction of 
     the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78) to the fleet by up to two 
     years, exacerbating existing carrier gaps.

[[Page H5550]]

       (K) The Navy has adopted a two-phase acquisition strategy 
     for the U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79), an action that will 
     delay the introduction of this aircraft carrier by up to two 
     years, exacerbating existing carrier gaps.
       (L) Developing an alternative design to the Ford class 
     aircraft carrier is not cost beneficial. A smaller design is 
     projected to incur significant design and engineering cost 
     while significantly reducing magazine size, carrier air wing 
     size, sortie rate, and on-station effectiveness among other 
     vital factors as compared to the Ford class. Furthermore, a 
     new design will delay the introduction of future aircraft 
     carriers, exacerbating existing carrier gaps and threatening 
     the national security of the United States.
       (M) The 2016 Navy Force Structure Assessment states ``A 
     minimum of 12 aircraft carriers are required to meet the 
     increased warfighting response requirements of the Defense 
     Planning Guidance Defeat/Deny force sizing direction.'' 
     Furthermore, a new National Defense Strategy is being 
     prepared that will assess the defeat/deny force sizing 
     direction and may increase the force structure associated 
     with aircraft carriers.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (A) the United States should expedite delivery of 12 
     aircraft carriers;
       (B) an aircraft carrier should be authorized every three 
     years;
       (C) shock trials should be conducted on the U.S.S. John F. 
     Kennedy (CVN-79), as initially proposed by the Navy;
       (D) construction for the U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79) 
     should be accomplished in a single phase; and
       (E) the United States should continue the Ford class design 
     for the aircraft carrier designated CVN-81.
       (b) Increase in Number of Operational Aircraft Carriers.--
       (1) Increase.--Section 5062(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``11 operational aircraft 
     carriers'' and inserting ``12 operational aircraft 
     carriers''.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect on September 30, 2023.
       (c) Shock Trials for CVN-78.--Section 128 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92; 129 Stat. 751) is amended--
       (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b); and
       (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
     (a) and (b), respectively.
       (d) Procurement Authority for Aircraft Carrier Programs.--
       (1) Procurement authority in support of construction of 
     ford class aircraft carriers.--
       (A) Authority for economic order quantity.--The Secretary 
     of the Navy may procure materiel and equipment in support of 
     the construction of the Ford class aircraft carriers 
     designated CVN-81 and CVN-82 in economic order quantities 
     when cost savings are achievable.
       (B) Liability.--Any contract entered into under 
     subparagraph (A) shall provide that any obligation of the 
     United States to make a payment under the contract is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations for that purpose, and 
     that total liability to the Government for termination of any 
     contract entered into shall be limited to the total amount of 
     funding obligated at time of termination.
       (2) Refueling and complex overhaul of nimitz class aircraft 
     carriers.--
       (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy may carry out 
     the nuclear refueling and complex overhaul of each of the 
     following Nimitz class aircraft carriers:
       (i) U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74).
       (ii) U.S.S. Harry S. Truman (CVN-75).
       (iii) U.S.S. Ronald Reagan (CVN-76).
       (iv) U.S.S. George H.W. Bush (CVN-77).
       (B) Use of incremental funding.--With respect to any 
     contract entered into under subparagraph (A) for the nuclear 
     refueling and complex overhaul of a Nimitz class aircraft 
     carrier, the Secretary may use incremental funding for a 
     period not to exceed six years after advance procurement 
     funds for such nuclear refueling and complex overhaul effort 
     are first obligated.
       (C) Condition for out-year contract payments.--Any contract 
     entered into under subparagraph (A) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for 
     that later fiscal year.

     SEC. 122. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR ICEBREAKER VESSELS.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Department in which 
     the Coast Guard is operating may enter into a contract or 
     other agreement with the Secretary of the Navy under which 
     the Navy shall act as general agent for the Department in 
     which the Coast Guard is operating for the purpose of 
     entering into a contract on behalf of such Department, 
     beginning with the fiscal year 2018 program year, for the 
     procurement of the following:
       (1) Not more than three heavy icebreaker vessels.
       (2) Not more than three medium icebreaker vessels.
       (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for 
     such later fiscal year.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Heavy icebreaker vessel.--The term ``heavy icebreaker 
     vessel'' means a vessel that is able--
       (A) to break through nonridged ice that is not less than 
     six feet thick at a speed of three knots;
       (B) to break through ridged ice that is not less than 21 
     feet thick; and
       (C) to operate continuously for 80 days without 
     replenishment.
       (2) Medium icebreaker vessel.--The term ``medium icebreaker 
     vessel'' means a vessel that is able--
       (A) to break through nonridged ice that is not less than 
     four and one-half feet thick at a speed of three knots; and
       (B) to operate continuously for 80 days without 
     replenishment.

     SEC. 123. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROCUREMENT 
                   OF ICEBREAKER VESSELS.

       (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none 
     of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 may be obligated or expended for the 
     procurement of an icebreaker vessel.
       (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding the limitation in 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy may use funds 
     described in such subsection to act as general agent for the 
     Department in which the Coast Guard is operating pursuant to 
     a contract or other agreement entered into under section 122.

     SEC. 124. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR VIRGINIA CLASS 
                   SUBMARINE PROGRAM.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, 
     beginning with the fiscal year 2019 program year, for the 
     procurement of up to 13 Virginia class submarines at a rate 
     of not more than 3 submarines per year during the covered 
     period.
       (b) Baseline Estimate.--Before entering into any contract 
     for the procurement of a Virginia class submarine under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Navy shall determine a 
     baseline estimate for the submarine in accordance with 
     section 2435 of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not enter 
     into a contract for the procurement of a Virginia class 
     submarine under subsection (a) if the contract would increase 
     the cost of the submarine by more than 10 percent above the 
     baseline estimate for the submarine determined under 
     subsection (b).
       (d) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary may 
     enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 
     2018, for advance procurement--
       (1) associated with the vessels for which authorization to 
     enter into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under 
     subsection (a); and
       (2) for other equipment and subsystems associated with the 
     Virginia class submarine program.
       (e) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.
       (f) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Covered period.--The term ``covered period'' means the 
     5-year period beginning with the fiscal year 2019 program 
     year and ending with the fiscal year 2023 program year.
       (2) Virginia class submarine.--The term ``Virginia class 
     submarine'' means a block V configured Virginia class 
     submarine.

     SEC. 125. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR ARLEIGH BURKE 
                   CLASS DESTROYERS AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, 
     beginning with the fiscal year 2018 program year, for the 
     procurement of--
       (1) up to 15 Arleigh Burke class Flight III guided missile 
     destroyers at a rate of not more than three such destroyers 
     per year during the covered period; and
       (2) the Aegis weapon systems, AN/SPY-6(v) air and missile 
     defense radar systems, MK 41 vertical launching systems, and 
     commercial broadband satellite systems associated with such 
     vessels.
       (b) Baseline Estimate.--Before entering into any contract 
     for the procurement of an Arleigh Burke class destroyer under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Navy shall determine a 
     baseline estimate for the destroyer in accordance with 
     section 2435 of title 10, United States Code.
       (c) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not enter 
     into a contract for the procurement of a Arleigh Burke class 
     destroyer or any major subprogram under subsection (a) if the 
     contract would increase the cost of the destroyer by more 
     than 10 percent above the baseline estimate for the destroyer 
     determined under subsection (b).
       (d) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary may 
     enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 
     2018, for advance procurement associated with the vessels and 
     systems for which authorization to enter into a multiyear 
     procurement contract is provided under subsection (a).
       (e) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.
       (f) Covered Period Defined.--The term ``covered period'' 
     means the 5-year period beginning with the fiscal year 2018 
     program year and ending with the fiscal year 2022 program 
     year.

     SEC. 126. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ARLEIGH 
                   BURKE CLASS DESTROYER.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise

[[Page H5551]]

     made available for fiscal year 2017 for procurement, that are 
     unobligated as of the date of the enactment of this Act, may 
     be obligated or expended to procure an Arleigh Burke class 
     destroyer (DDG-51) unless not fewer than two covered 
     destroyers include an AN/SPY-6(V) air and missile defense 
     radar system.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the 
     limitation in subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that 
     the cost or schedule risk associated with the integration of 
     the AN/SPY-6(V) air and missile defense radar is unacceptable 
     or incongruous with a business case that relies on stable 
     design, technology maturity, and realistic cost and schedule 
     estimates.
       (c) Covered Destroyer Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered destroyer'' means an Arleigh Burke class destroyer 
     (DDG-51) for which funds were authorized to be appropriated 
     by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2016 (Public Law 114-92) or the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328).

     SEC. 127. EXTENSIONS OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO CONSTRUCTION 
                   OF CERTAIN VESSELS.

       (a) Extension of Authority to Use Incremental Funding for 
     LHA Replacement.--Section 122(a) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for fiscal year 2017 (114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2030) is amended by striking ``for fiscal years 2017 and 
     2018'' and inserting ``for fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 
     2019''.
       (b) Extension of Ford Class Aircraft Carrier Construction 
     Authority.--Section 121(a) of the John Warner National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
     109-364; 120 Stat. 2104), as most recently amended by section 
     121 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1654), is amended by 
     striking ``five fiscal years'' and inserting ``seven fiscal 
     years''.

     SEC. 128. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR V-22 OSPREY 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to 
     section 2306b of title 10, United States Code (except as 
     provided in subsection (b)), the Secretary of the Navy may 
     enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with 
     the 2018 program year, for the procurement of the following:
       (1) V-22 Osprey aircraft.
       (2) Common configuration-readiness and modernization 
     upgrades for V-22 Osprey aircraft.
       (b) Contract Period.--Notwithstanding section 2306b(k) of 
     title 10, United States Code, the period covered by a 
     contract entered into on a multiyear basis under the 
     authority of subsection (a) may exceed five years, but may 
     not exceed seven years.
       (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract 
     entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any 
     obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
     contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2018 is subject 
     to the availability of appropriations or funds for that 
     purpose for such later fiscal year.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

     SEC. 131. STREAMLINING ACQUISITION OF INTERCONTINENTAL 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE SECURITY CAPABILITY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On September 25, 2014, then Secretary of the Air Force, 
     Deborah Lee James, submitted a report to Congress on the 
     replacement strategy of the Air Force for the UH-1N 
     helicopter, which included the following information:
       (A) On the age of the airframe: ``The UH-1N is a versatile 
     utility helicopter that was accepted into service from 1968-
     1969.''.
       (B) On the ability to meet requirements: ``The entire fleet 
     supports five general homeland security missions. . .The 
     ability of the UH-1N to accomplish these missions was 
     evaluated in 2006, and the aircraft was found to be `not 
     effective.' The shortcomings of the UH-1N were derived from 
     specific mission requirements for carrying capacity, 
     airspeed, unrefueled endurance, mission range, force 
     protection for the floor, specific protection for all aircrew 
     and passengers, survivability, and materiel availability.''.
       (C) Regarding previous efforts to acquire a replacement 
     aircraft, the report identified efforts that date back to 
     2006, including--
       (i) an initial analysis of alternatives by Air Force Space 
     Command in 2006;
       (ii) the common vertical lift support platform program, 
     which was cancelled in 2013;
       (iii) two RAND corporation studies funded in 2013; and
       (iv) the then-current proposal of the Air Force to procure 
     modified Army UH-60 helicopters.
       (2) On February 24, 2016, at a hearing before the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, in 
     response to concerns related to lift, capacity, and hover 
     time of the UH-1N, then Commander of the United States 
     Strategic Command, Admiral Cecil Haney stated: ``Congressman, 
     absolutely, in terms of thinking very crisply associated with 
     what we need to do to improve security of our missile fields. 
     . . the attributes you listed are the attributes that concern 
     me in terms of the capability, not just now, but into the 
     future.''.
       (3) On March 2, 2016, at a hearing before the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives, the Commander 
     of Air Force Global Strike Command, General Robin Rand 
     stated: ``We will not meet the emergency security response 
     with the present helicopter.''.
       (4) On April 4, 2017, at a hearing before the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate, the Commander of the United 
     States Strategic Command, General John E. Hyten stated: ``Of 
     all the things in my portfolio, I can't even describe how 
     upset I get about the helicopter replacement program. It's a 
     helicopter, for gosh sakes. We ought to be able to go out and 
     buy a helicopter and put it in the hands of the people that 
     need it. And we should be able to do that quickly. We've been 
     building combat helicopters for a long time in this country. 
     I don't understand why the heck it is so hard to buy a 
     helicopter.''.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, 
     based on the findings under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
     Defense should have the authority to expedite the procurement 
     of a replacement aircraft for the UH-1N helicopter.
       (c) Waiver and Contract Authority.--Subject to subsection 
     (d), in procuring a replacement aircraft for the UH-1N 
     helicopter, the Secretary of Defense may--
       (1) waive any provision of law requiring the use of 
     competitive procedures for the procurement; and
       (2) enter into a contract for the procurement on a sole-
     source basis.
       (d) Notice and Certification.--Not later than 15 days 
     before exercising the authority under subsection (c), the 
     Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees, in writing--
       (1) notice of the intent of the Secretary to exercise such 
     authority; and
       (2) a certification that--
       (A) the Secretary has reviewed--
       (i) the threshold requirements for the UH-1N replacement 
     aircraft program; and
       (ii) any delays that may have occurred while the Air Force 
     pursued strategies for the procurement of such aircraft on an 
     other than sole-source basis; and
       (B) after conducting such review, the Secretary has 
     determined that entering into a contract on a sole-source 
     basis under subsection (c)--
       (i) is in the national security interests of the United 
     States; and
       (ii) is necessary to ensure that a UH-1N replacement 
     aircraft enters service by not later than September 30, 2020.

     SEC. 132. LIMITATION ON SELECTION OF SINGLE CONTRACTOR FOR C-
                   130H AVIONICS MODERNIZATION PROGRAM INCREMENT 
                   2.

       (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not 
     select only a single prime contractor to carry out increment 
     2 of the C-130H avionics modernization program until the 
     Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
     written certification that, in selecting such a single prime 
     contractor--
       (1) the Secretary will ensure, to the extent practicable, 
     that commercially available off-the-shelf items are used 
     under the program, including technology solutions and 
     nondevelopmental items; and
       (2) excessively restrictive military specification 
     standards will not be used to restrict or eliminate full and 
     open competition in the selection process.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``commercially 
     available off-the-shelf item'', ``full and open 
     competition'', and ``nondevelopmental item'' have the 
     meanings given the terms in chapter 1 of title 41, United 
     States Code.

     SEC. 133. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR EC-130H 
                   COMPASS CALL RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any 
     fiscal year for the EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization 
     program of the Air Force may be obligated or expended until a 
     period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which the 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics submits to the congressional defense committees the 
     certification described in subsection (b).
       (b) Certification.--The certification described in this 
     subsection is a written statement certifying that--
       (1) an independent review of the acquisition process for 
     the EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization program of the Air 
     Force has been conducted; and
       (2) as a result of such review, it has been determined that 
     the acquisition process for such program complies with all 
     applicable laws, guidelines, and best practices.

     SEC. 134. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF UPGRADES TO MQ-9 REAPER 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of the Air Force, shall conduct an 
     analysis that compares the costs and benefits of the 
     following:
       (1) Upgrading fielded MQ-9 Reaper aircraft to a Block 5 
     configuration.
       (2) Proceeding with the procurement of MQ-9B aircraft 
     instead of upgrading fielded MQ-9 Reaper aircraft to a Block 
     5 configuration.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     includes the results of the cost-benefit analysis conducted 
     under subsection (a).
       (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

     SEC. 141. AUTHORITY FOR PROCUREMENT OF ECONOMIC ORDER 
                   QUANTITIES FOR THE F-35 AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.

       (a) Authority for Procurement of Economic Order 
     Quantities.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of 
     Defense may enter into one or more contracts, beginning with 
     the fiscal year 2018 program year, for the procurement of 
     economic order quantities of the material and equipment 
     described in subsection (b).
       (b) Material and Equipment Described.--The material and 
     equipment described in this subsection is material and 
     equipment--
       (1) that has completed formal hardware qualification 
     testing for the F-35 aircraft program; and

[[Page H5552]]

       (2) is to be used in procurement contracts to be awarded 
     under the F-35 aircraft program in fiscal years 2019 and 
     2020.
       (c) Limitations.--
       (1) Maximum amount.--Of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 or any fiscal year 
     thereafter for the F-35 aircraft program, not more than 
     $661,000,000 may be obligated or expended to enter into 
     contracts under subsection (a).
       (2) Certification.--The Secretary of Defense may not enter 
     into a contract under subsection (a) until a period of 15 
     days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary 
     submits to the congressional defense committees a written 
     certification that the contract to be entered into under such 
     subsection meets the following conditions:
       (A) The contract will result in significant cost savings as 
     compared to the total anticipated costs of procuring the 
     property through contracts that are not for economic order 
     quantities.
       (B) The estimates of the cost of the contract and the 
     anticipated cost savings resulting from the contract are 
     realistic.
       (C) The minimum need for the property that is to be 
     procured under the contract is expected to remain 
     substantially unchanged during the contract period.
       (D) There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the 
     contract period, the head of the relevant military department 
     or defense agency will request funding for the contract at 
     the level required to avoid contract cancellation.
       (E) The design of the property that is to be procured under 
     the contract is expected to remain substantially unchanged 
     and the technical risks associated with such design are not 
     excessive.
       (F) Entering into the contract will promote the national 
     security interests of the United States.
       (G) The contract satisfies the conditions described in 
     subparagraphs (C) through (F) of section 2306b(i)(3) of title 
     10, United States Code.

     SEC. 142. LIMITATION ON DEMILITARIZATION OF CERTAIN CLUSTER 
                   MUNITIONS.

       (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
     Secretary of Defense may not demilitarize any cluster 
     munitions until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
     submits to the congressional defense committees the 
     certification described in subsection (b).
       (b) Certification.--The certification described in this 
     subsection is a written certification that the Department of 
     Defense has an inventory of covered munitions that meets not 
     less than 75 percent of the operational requirements of the 
     Department with respect to cluster munitions across the full 
     range of military operational environments.
       (c) Exception for Safety.--The limitation under subsection 
     (a) shall not apply to the demilitarization of cluster 
     munitions that the Secretary determines--
       (1) are unserviceable as a result of an inspection, test, 
     field incident, or other significant failure to meet 
     performance or logistics requirements; or
       (2) are unsafe or could pose a safety risk if not 
     demilitarized or destroyed.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Cluster munition.--The term ``cluster munition'' means 
     a munition that is composed of a nonreusable canister or 
     delivery body that contains multiple, conventional 
     submunitions, without regard to the mode by which the 
     munition is delivered. The term does not include--
       (A) nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons;
       (B) obscurants;
       (C) pyrotechnics;
       (D) non-lethal systems;
       (E) non-explosive kinetic effect submunitions;
       (F) electronic effects; or
       (G) landmines.
       (2) Covered munitions.--The term ``covered munitions'' 
     means cluster munitions containing submunitions that, after 
     arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
     ordnance (as that term is defined in section 101(e)(5) of 
     title 10, United States Code) across the range of intended 
     operational environments.
       (3) Demilitarize.--The term ``demilitarize'', when used 
     with respect to a cluster munition or components of a cluster 
     munition--
       (A) means to destroy the military offensive or defensive 
     advantages inherent in the munition or its components; and
       (B) includes any mutilation, scrapping, melting, burning, 
     or alteration that prevents the use of the munition or its 
     components for the military purposes for which the munition 
     or its components was designed or for a lethal purpose.

     SEC. 143. REINSTATEMENT OF REQUIREMENT TO PRESERVE CERTAIN C-
                   5 AIRCRAFT.

       Section 141 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1659), as 
     amended by section 132 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), is amended by 
     inserting after subsection (c) the following:
       ``(d) Preservation of Certain Retired C-5 Aircraft.--The 
     Secretary of the Air Force shall preserve each C-5 aircraft 
     that is retired by the Secretary during a period in which the 
     total inventory of strategic airlift aircraft of the 
     Secretary is less than 301, such that the retired aircraft--
       ``(1) is stored in flyable condition;
       ``(2) can be returned to service; and
       ``(3) is not used to supply parts to other aircraft unless 
     specifically authorized by the Secretary of Defense upon a 
     request by the Secretary of the Air Force.''.

     SEC. 144. REQUIREMENT THAT CERTAIN AIRCRAFT AND UNMANNED 
                   AERIAL VEHICLES USE SPECIFIED STANDARD DATA 
                   LINK.

       Section 157 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1667) is 
     amended--
       (1) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
       ``(b) Solicitations.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
       ``(1) ensure that any solicitation issued for a Common Data 
     Link described in subsection (a), regardless of whether the 
     solicitation is issued by a military department or a 
     contractor with respect to a subcontract--
       ``(A) conforms to a Department of Defense specification 
     standard, including interfaces and waveforms, existing as of 
     the date of the solicitation; and
       ``(B) does not include any proprietary or undocumented 
     waveforms or control interfaces or data interfaces as a 
     requirement or criterion for evaluation; and
       ``(2) notify the congressional defense committees not later 
     than 15 days after issuing a solicitation for a Common Data 
     Link to be sunset (CDL-TBS) waveform.''; and
       (2) in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1)--
       (A) by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
     ``Deputy Secretary of Defense'';
       (B) by striking ``Under Secretary'' and inserting ``Deputy 
     Secretary of Defense'' ; and
       (C) by inserting ``before October 1, 2023'' after 
     ``committees''.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

     SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in 
     the funding table in section 4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, And Limitations

     SEC. 211. COST CONTROLS FOR PRESIDENTIAL AIRCRAFT 
                   RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.

       (a) Fixed Capability Requirements.--Except as provided in 
     subsection (b), the capability requirements for aircraft 
     procured under the presidential aircraft recapitalization 
     program of the Air Force (referred to in this section as the 
     ``PAR Program'') shall be the capability requirements 
     identified in version 7.0 of the system requirement document 
     for the PAR Program dated December 14, 2016.
       (b) Adjustments.--The Secretary of the Air Force may adjust 
     the capability requirements described in subsection (a) only 
     if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
     committees a written determination that such adjustment is 
     necessary--
       (1) to resolve an ambiguity relating to the capability 
     requirement;
       (2) to address a problem with the administration of the 
     capability requirement;
       (3) to lower the development cost or life-cycle cost of the 
     PAR program;
       (4) to comply with a change in international, Federal, 
     State, or local law or regulation that takes effect after 
     September 30, 2017;
       (5) to address a safety issue; or
       (6) subject to subsection (c), to address an emerging 
     threat or vulnerability.
       (c) Limitation on Adjustment for Emerging Threat or 
     Vulnerability.--The Secretary of the Air Force may use the 
     authority under paragraph (6) of subsection (b) to adjust the 
     requirements described in subsection (a) only if the 
     Secretary and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, on a 
     nondelegable basis--
       (1) jointly determine that such adjustment is necessary and 
     in the interests of the national security of the United 
     States; and
       (2) submit to the congressional defense committees notice 
     of such joint determination.
       (d) Form of Contracts.--
       (1) Requirement for fixed-price type contracts.--Of the 
     total amount of funds obligated or expended for contracts for 
     engineering and manufacturing development under the PAR 
     program, not less than 50 percent shall be for fixed-price 
     type contracts.
       (2) Other contract types.--Except as provided in paragraph 
     (1), a contract other than a fixed-price type contract may be 
     entered into under the PAR Program only if the service 
     acquisition executive of the Air Force, on a nondelegable 
     basis, approves the contract.
       (e) Quarterly Briefings.--
       (1) In general.--Beginning not later than October 1, 2017, 
     and on a quarterly basis thereafter through October 1, 2022, 
     the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide to the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing 
     on the efforts of the Secretary to control costs under the 
     PAR Program.
       (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
     include, with respect to the PAR Program, the following:
       (A) An overview of the program schedule.
       (B) A description of each contract awarded under the 
     program, including a description of the type of contract and 
     the status of the contract.
       (C) An assessment of the status of the program with respect 
     to--
       (i) modification;
       (ii) testing;
       (iii) delivery; and
       (iv) sustainment.
       (f) Service Acquisition Executive Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``service acquisition executive'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 101(a)(10) of title 10, 
     United States Code.

     SEC. 212. CAPITAL INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.

       Section 2208(k)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``$250,000'' and inserting ``$500,000''.

[[Page H5553]]

  


     SEC. 213. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO AWARD PRIZES FOR 
                   ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ACHIEVEMENTS.

       Section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``to award cash prizes'' 
     and inserting ``to award prizes, which may be cash prizes or 
     nonmonetary prizes,'';
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``cash prizes'' and 
     inserting ``prizes'';
       (3) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``cash prize of'' and 
     inserting ``prize valued at''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) No prize competition may result in the award of a 
     nonmonetary prize valued at more than $10,000 without the 
     approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
     Technology, and Logistics.'';
       (4) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by inserting ``or nonmonetary items'' after ``accept 
     funds''; and
       (B) by striking ``and from State and local governments,'' 
     and inserting ``from State and local governments, and from 
     other nongovernmental sources,''; and
       (5) by striking subsection (f).

     SEC. 214. CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES FOR COLUMBIA CLASS SUBMARINE.

       (a) In General.--For purposes of sections 2366b and 
     2448b(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the components 
     identified in subsection (b) are deemed to be critical 
     technologies for the Columbia class ballistic missile 
     submarine construction program.
       (b) Critical Technologies.--The components identified in 
     this subsection are--
       (1) the coordinated stern for the Columbia class ballistic 
     missile submarine;
       (2) the electric drive system for the submarine; and
       (3) the nuclear reactor for the submarine.

     SEC. 215. JOINT HYPERSONICS TRANSITION OFFICE.

       (a) Redesignation.--The joint technology office on 
     hypersonics in the Office of the Secretary of Defense is 
     redesignated as the ``Joint Hypersonics Transition Office''. 
     Any reference in a law (other than this section), map, 
     regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
     States to the joint technology office on hypersonics shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the Joint Hypersonics Transition 
     Office.
       (b) Hypersonics Development.--Section 218 of the John 
     Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), as amended by 
     section 1079(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-192; 129 Stat. 999), is 
     amended--
       (1) in the heading of subsection (a), by striking ``Joint 
     Technology Office on Hypersonics'' and inserting ``Joint 
     Hypersonics Transition Office'';
       (2) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``joint technology 
     office on hypersonics'' and inserting ``Joint Hypersonics 
     Transition Office (in this section referred to as the 
     `Office')''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``office'' and 
     inserting ``Office'';
       (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``joint technology 
     office established under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``Office''; and
       (4) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
       ``(c) Responsibilities.--In carrying out the program 
     required by subsection (b), the Office shall do the 
     following:
       ``(1) Coordinate and integrate current and future research, 
     development, test, and evaluation programs and system 
     demonstration programs of the Department of Defense on 
     hypersonics.
       ``(2) Undertake appropriate actions to ensure--
       ``(A) close and continuous integration of the programs on 
     hypersonics of the military departments and the Defense 
     Agencies with the programs on hypersonics across the Federal 
     Government; and
       ``(B) that both foundational research and developmental 
     testing resources are adequate and well funded, and that 
     facilities are made available in a timely manner to support 
     hypersonics research, demonstration programs, and system 
     development.
       ``(3) Approve demonstration programs on hypersonic systems 
     to speed the maturation and deployment of the systems to the 
     warfighter,.
       ``(4) Ensure that any demonstration program on hypersonic 
     systems that is carried out in any year after its approval 
     under paragraph (3) is carried out only if certified under 
     subsection (e) as being consistent with the roadmap under 
     subsection (d).
       ``(5) Develop a well-defined path for hypersonic 
     technologies to transition to operational capabilities for 
     the warfighter.'';
       (5) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``joint technology 
     office established under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``Office''; and
       (6) in subsection (e)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``joint technology office 
     established under subsection (a)'' and inserting ``Office''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``joint technology 
     office'' and inserting ``Office''.

     SEC. 216. HYPERSONIC AIRBREATHING WEAPONS CAPABILITIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may transfer 
     oversight and management of the Hypersonic Airbreathing 
     Weapons Concept from the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
     Agency to a responsible entity of the Air Force. The 
     Secretary of the Air Force, acting through the head of the 
     Air Force Research Laboratory, shall continue--
       (1) to develop a reusable hypersonics test bed to further 
     probe the high speed flight corridor and to facilitate the 
     testing and development of hypersonic airbreathing weapon 
     systems;
       (2) to explore emerging concepts and technologies for 
     reusable hypersonics weapons systems beyond current 
     hypersonics programs, focused on experimental flight test 
     capabilities; and
       (3) to develop defensive technologies and countermeasures 
     against potential and identified hypersonic threats.
       (b) Hypersonic Airbreathing Weapon System Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``hypersonic airbreathing weapon system'' 
     means a missile or platform with military utility that 
     operates at speeds near or beyond approximately five times 
     the speed of sound, and that is propelled through the 
     atmosphere with an engine that burns fuel with oxygen from 
     the atmosphere that is collected in an inlet.

     SEC. 217. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MQ-25 
                   UNMANNED AIR SYSTEM.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for research, development, test, and evaluation, Navy, for 
     the MQ-25 unmanned air system, not more than 75 percent may 
     be obligated or expended until a period of 60 days has 
     elapsed following the date on which the certification and 
     report under subsection (b) have been submitted to the 
     congressional defense committees.
       (b) Certification and Report.--
       (1) Certification.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a written 
     certification that--
       (A) the MQ-25 unmanned air system is required to fill a 
     validated capability gap of the Department of the Navy;
       (B) the Chief of Naval Operations has reviewed and approved 
     the initial capability document and the capability 
     development document relating to such system; and
       (C) the initial capability document and the capability 
     development document have been provided to the congressional 
     defense committees.
       (2) Report.--The Assistant Secretary of the Navy for 
     Research, Development, and Acquisition shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report that includes--
       (A) an identification of threshold and objective key 
     performance parameters for the MQ-25 unmanned air system;
       (B) a certification that the threshold and objective key 
     performance parameters for such system have been established 
     and are achievable; and
       (C) a description of the requirements of such system with 
     respect to--
       (i) fuel transfer;
       (ii) equipment for intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance;
       (iii) equipment for electronic attack and electronic 
     protection;
       (iv) communications equipment;
       (v) weapons payload;
       (vi) range;
       (vii) mission endurance for unrefueled and aerial refueled 
     operations;
       (viii) affordability;
       (ix) survivability; and
       (x) interoperability with other Navy and joint-service 
     unmanned aerial systems and mission control stations.

     SEC. 218. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CONTRACT 
                   WRITING SYSTEMS.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds specified in subsection (c), 
     not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until 
     the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
     congressional defense committees the assessment required 
     under subsection (b).
       (b) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments, shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a written assessment of the requirements for each 
     contract writing information technology system of the 
     Department of Defense and the military departments. Such 
     assessment shall include the following:
       (1) Analysis of the requirements for each such contract 
     writing system, including identification of common 
     requirements and any requirements unique to each military 
     department.
       (2) Identification of legacy systems that provide data to, 
     or receive data from, such contract writing systems.
       (3) Projected timelines showing when each contract writing 
     system is expected to become fully operationally capable and 
     when each legacy system is expected to terminate, based on 
     budget projections included in the most recent future-years 
     defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (4) Assessment of how a shared services model might be 
     applied to replace specific contract writing systems, 
     including analysis of the business process reengineering 
     necessary to move to a shared services model and how shared 
     services can be integrated into the business enterprise 
     architecture of the Department.
       (5) Identification of available shared services for 
     contract writing systems, such as those offered by the 
     General Services Administration or by other sources, that 
     might provide viable alternatives to current contract writing 
     systems.
       (6) Identification of any gaps in the capabilities of 
     available shared services for contract writing systems, and 
     recommendations for addressing such gaps.
       (7) Identification of any policy, legal, or statutory 
     constraints that would have to be addressed in order to move 
     to a share services model for contract writing systems.
       (c) Funds Specified.--The funds specified in this 
     subsection are the following--
       (1) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation for each system described 
     in subsection (d).

[[Page H5554]]

       (2) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for procurement 
     for each system described in subsection (d).
       (d) Systems Described.--The systems described in this 
     subsection are the following:
       (1) The Contract Writing System of the Army.
       (2) The Electronic Procurement System of the Navy.
       (3) The Automated Contract Preparation System of the Air 
     Force.
       (4) The Contract Writing and Administration System of the 
     Defense Contract Management Agency.
       (5) The Standard Procurement System of the Defense 
     Logistics Agency.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are here by authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and 
     maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
     4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

     SEC. 311. CODIFICATION OF AND IMPROVEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE CLEARINGHOUSE TO COORDINATE DEPARTMENT 
                   REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS 
                   THAT MAY HAVE ADVERSE IMPACT ON MILITARY 
                   OPERATIONS AND READINESS.

       (a) Establishment of Military Aviation, Range, and 
     Installation Assurance Program Office.--
       (1) Codification and improvement of existing law.--Chapter 
     7 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     after section 183 the following new section:

     ``Sec. 183a. Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
       Assurance Program Office for review of mission obstructions

       ``(a) Establishment.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office.
       ``(2) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall be--
       ``(A) organized under the authority, direction, and control 
     of an Assistant Secretary of Defense designated by the 
     Secretary; and
       ``(B) assigned such personnel and resources as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this section.
       ``(b) Functions.--(1)(A) The Military Aviation, Range, and 
     Installation Assurance Program Office shall serve as a 
     clearinghouse to coordinate Department of Defense review of 
     applications for energy projects filed with the Secretary of 
     Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 and 
     received by the Department of Defense from the Secretary of 
     Transportation.
       ``(B) To facilitate the review of an application for an 
     energy project submitted pursuant to such section, the 
     Military Aviation, Range, and Installation Assurance Program 
     Office shall accelerate the development, in coordination with 
     other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, 
     of--
       ``(i) an integrated review process to ensure timely 
     notification and consideration of any application that may 
     have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness; 
     and
       ``(ii) planning tools necessary to determine the 
     acceptability to the Department of Defense of the energy 
     project proposal included in the application.
       ``(2) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall establish procedures for the 
     Department of Defense for the coordinated consideration of 
     and response to a request for a review received from another 
     Federal agency, a State government, an Indian tribal 
     government, a local government, a landowner, or the developer 
     of an energy project, including guidance to personnel at each 
     military installation in the United States on how to initiate 
     such procedures and ensure a coordinated Department response.
       ``(3) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall consult with affected military 
     installations for the review and consideration of proposed 
     energy projects.
       ``(4) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall develop procedures for 
     conducting early outreach to parties carrying out energy 
     projects that could have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness and to clearly communicate to such 
     parties actions being taken by the Department under this 
     section.
       ``(5) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall perform such other functions 
     as the Secretary of Defense assigns.
       ``(c) Review of Proposed Actions.--(1) Not later than 30 
     days after receiving from the Secretary of Transportation a 
     proper application for an energy project under section 44718 
     of title 49 that may have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness, the Military Aviation, Range, and 
     Installation Assurance Program Office shall conduct a 
     preliminary review of such application. Such review shall--
       ``(A) assess the likely scope, duration, and level of risk 
     of any adverse impact of such energy project on military 
     operations and readiness; and
       ``(B) identify any feasible and affordable actions that 
     could be taken by the Department, the developer of such 
     energy project, or others to mitigate such adverse impact and 
     to minimize risks to national security while allowing such 
     energy project to proceed with development.
       ``(2) If the Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office determines under paragraph (1) that 
     an energy project will have an adverse impact on military 
     operations and readiness, the Military Aviation, Range, and 
     Installation Assurance Program Office, with the approval of 
     the Secretary of Defense, shall issue to the applicant a 
     notice of presumed risk that describes the concerns 
     identified by the Department in the preliminary review and 
     requests a discussion of possible mitigation actions.
       ``(d) Comprehensive Review.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
     shall develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing the 
     military impacts of projects filed with the Secretary of 
     Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49.
       ``(2) In developing the strategy required by paragraph (1), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall--
       ``(A) assess the magnitude of interference posed by 
     projects filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49;
       ``(B) identify geographic areas in which projects filed, or 
     which may be filed in the future, with the Secretary of 
     Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49, could 
     have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness, 
     including military training routes, and categorize the risk 
     of adverse impact in each geographic area for the purpose of 
     informing preliminary reviews under subsection (c)(1), early 
     outreach efforts under subsection (b)(4), and online 
     dissemination efforts under paragraph (3);
       ``(C) develop procedures to periodically review and modify 
     geographic areas identified under subparagraph (B) and to 
     solicit and identify additional geographic areas as 
     appropriate; and
       ``(D) specifically identify feasible and affordable long-
     term actions that may be taken to mitigate adverse impacts of 
     projects filed, or which may be filed in the future, with the 
     Secretary of Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of 
     title 49, on military operations and readiness, including--
       ``(i) investment priorities of the Department of Defense 
     with respect to research and development;
       ``(ii) modifications to military operations to accommodate 
     applications for such projects;
       ``(iii) recommended upgrades or modifications to existing 
     systems or procedures by the Department of Defense;
       ``(iv) acquisition of new systems by the Department and 
     other departments and agencies of the Federal Government and 
     timelines for fielding such new systems; and
       ``(v) modifications to the projects for which such 
     applications are filed, including changes in size, location, 
     or technology.
       ``(3) The Military Aviation, Range, and Installation 
     Assurance Program Office shall make available online access 
     to data reflecting geographic areas identified under 
     subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) and reviewed and modified 
     under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph.
       ``(e) Department of Defense Determination of Unacceptable 
     Risk.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may not object to an 
     energy project filed with the Secretary of Transportation 
     pursuant to section 44718 of title 49 unless the Secretary of 
     Defense determines, after giving full consideration to 
     mitigation actions identified pursuant to this section, that 
     the project would result in an unacceptable risk to the 
     national security of the United States. Such a determination 
     shall constitute a finding pursuant to section 44718(f) of 
     title 49.
       ``(2) Not later than 30 days after making a determination 
     under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate a report on such determination 
     and the basis for such determination. Such report shall 
     include an explanation of the basis of the determination, a 
     discussion of the mitigation options considered, and an 
     explanation of why, in the case of a determination of 
     unacceptable risk, the mitigation options were not feasible 
     or did not resolve the conflict. The Secretary of Defense may 
     provide public notice through the Federal Register of the 
     determination.
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may only delegate the 
     responsibility for making a determination under paragraph (1) 
     to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of 
     Defense, or a Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense.
       ``(f) Authority to Accept Contributions of Funds.--The 
     Secretary of Defense is authorized to request and accept a 
     voluntary contribution of funds from an applicant for a 
     project filed with the Secretary of Transportation pursuant 
     to section 44718 of title 49. Amounts so accepted shall 
     remain available until expended for the purpose of offsetting 
     the cost of measures undertaken by the Secretary of Defense 
     to mitigate adverse impacts of such a project on military 
     operations and readiness or to conduct studies of potential 
     measures to mitigate such impacts.
       ``(g) Effect of Department of Defense Hazard Assessment.--
     An action taken pursuant to this section shall not be 
     considered to be a substitute for any assessment or 
     determination required of the Secretary of Transportation 
     under section 44718 of title 49.
       ``(h) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to affect or limit the application of, or any 
     obligation to comply with, any environmental law, including 
     the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
     et seq.).
       ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `adverse impact on military operations and 
     readiness' means any adverse impact upon military operations 
     and readiness, including flight operations, research, 
     development, testing, and evaluation, and training, that is 
     demonstrable and is likely to impair or degrade the ability 
     of the armed forces to perform their warfighting missions.

[[Page H5555]]

       ``(2) The term `energy project' means a project that 
     provides for the generation or transmission of electrical 
     energy.
       ``(3) The term `landowner' means a person that owns a fee 
     interest in real property on which a proposed energy project 
     is planned to be located.
       ``(4) The term `military installation' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 2801(c)(4) of this title.
       ``(5) The term `military readiness' includes any training 
     or operation that could be related to combat readiness, 
     including testing and evaluation activities.
       ``(6) The term `military training route' means a training 
     route developed as part of the Military Training Route 
     Program, carried out jointly by the Federal Aviation 
     Administration and the Secretary of Defense, for use by the 
     armed forces for the purpose of conducting low-altitude, 
     high-speed military training.
       ``(7) The term `unacceptable risk to the national security 
     of the United States' means the construction, alteration, 
     establishment, or expansion, or the proposed construction, 
     alteration, establishment, or expansion, of a structure or 
     sanitary landfill that would--
       ``(A) endanger safety in air commerce, related to the 
     activities of the Department of Defense;
       ``(B) interfere with the efficient use and preservation of 
     the navigable airspace and of airport traffic capacity at 
     public-use airports, related to the activities of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       ``(C) impair or degrade the capability of the Department of 
     Defense to conduct training, research, development, testing, 
     evaluation, and operations or to maintain military 
     readiness.''.
       (2) Conforming and clerical amendments.--
       (A) Repeal of existing provision.--Section 358 of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011 (Public Law 111-383; 49 U.S.C. 44718 note) is repealed.
       (B) Reference to definitions.--Section 44718(g) of title 
     49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``211.3 of 
     title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on 
     January 6, 2014'' both places it appears and inserting 
     ``183a(i) of title 10''.
       (C) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
     the beginning of chapter 7 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
     183 the following new item:

``183a. Military Aviation, Range, and Installation Assurance Program 
              Office for review of mission obstructions.''.
       (3) Deadline for initial identification of geographic 
     areas.--The initial identification of geographic areas under 
     subsection (d)(2)(B) of section 183a of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall be completed 
     not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.
       (4) Applicability of existing rules and regulations.--
     Notwithstanding the amendments made by paragraphs (1) and 
     (2), any rule or regulation promulgated to carry out section 
     358 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 49 U.S.C. 44718 note) 
     that is in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
     of this Act shall continue in effect and apply to the extent 
     such rule or regulation is consistent with the authority 
     under section 183a of title 10, United States Code, as added 
     by paragraph (1), until such rule or regulation is otherwise 
     amended or repealed.
       (b) Conforming Amendment Regarding Critical Military-use 
     Airspace Areas.--Section 44718 of title 49, United States 
     Code, as amended by subsection (a)(2)(B), is further 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(g) Special Rule for Identified Geographic Areas.--In the 
     case of a proposed structure to be located within a 
     geographic area identified under subsection (d)(2)(B) of 
     section 183a of title 10, the Secretary of Transportation may 
     not issue a determination until the Secretary of Defense 
     issues a determination under subsection (e) of such section 
     as to whether or not the proposed structure represents an 
     unacceptable risk to the national security of the United 
     States (as defined in subsection (i)(7) of such section).''.

     SEC. 312. ENERGY PERFORMANCE GOALS AND MASTER PLAN.

       Section 2911(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following: ``, the future demand for energy, and the 
     requirements for the use of energy'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``reduce the future 
     demand and the requirements for the use of energy'' and 
     inserting ``enhance energy resilience to ensure the 
     Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and 
     recover from energy disruptions that affect mission assurance 
     on military installations''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(13) Opportunities to leverage financing provided by a 
     non-Department entity to address installation energy 
     needs.''.

     SEC. 313. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF 
                   STIPULATED PENALTY IN CONNECTION WITH UMATILLA 
                   CHEMICAL DEPOT, OREGON.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
       (1) Transfer amount.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     transfer an amount of not more than $125,000 to the Hazardous 
     Substance Superfund established under subchapter A of chapter 
     98 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Any such transfer 
     shall be made without regard to section 2215 of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (2) Source of funds.--Any transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     Base Realignment and Closure, Army.
       (b) Purpose of Transfer.--A transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be for the purpose of satisfying a stipulated penalty 
     assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency in the 
     settlement agreement approved by the Army on July 14, 2016, 
     against the Umatilla Chemical Depot, Oregon under the Federal 
     Facility Agreement between the Army and the Environmental 
     Protection Agency dated September 19, 1989.
       (c) Acceptance of Payment.--If the Secretary of the Army 
     makes a transfer under subsection (a), the Administrator of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency shall accept the amount 
     transferred as payment in full of the penalty referred to in 
     subsection (b).

     SEC. 314. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF 
                   STIPULATED PENALTY IN CONNECTION WITH LONGHORN 
                   ARMY AMMUNITION PLANT, TEXAS.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
       (1) Transfer amount.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     transfer an amount of not more than $1,185,000 to the 
     Hazardous Substance Superfund established under subchapter A 
     of chapter 98 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Any such 
     transfer shall be made without regard to section 2215 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (2) Source of funds.--Any transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     Environmental Restoration, Army.
       (b) Purpose of Transfer.--A transfer under subsection (a) 
     shall be for the purpose of satisfying a stipulated penalty 
     assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency on April 5, 
     2013, against Longhorn Army Ammunition Plant, Texas, under 
     the Federal Facility Agreement for Longhorn Army Ammunition 
     Plant, which was entered into between the Army and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency in 1991.
       (c) Acceptance of Payment.--If the Secretary of the Army 
     makes a transfer under subsection (a), the Administrator of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency shall accept the amount 
     transferred as payment in full of the penalty referred to in 
     subsection (b).

     SEC. 315. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CLEANUP AND REMOVAL OF 
                   PETROLEUM, OIL, AND LUBRICANT ASSOCIATED WITH 
                   THE PRINZ EUGEN.

       Amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
     Defense may by used for all necessary expenses for the 
     removal and cleanup of petroleum, oil, and lubricants 
     associated with the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen, which was 
     transferred from the United States to the Republic of the 
     Marshall Islands in 1986.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

     SEC. 321. REAUTHORIZATION OF MULTI-TRADES DEMONSTRATION 
                   PROJECT.

       Section 338 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 5013 note), 
     as most recently amended by section 321 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
     112-239; 126 Stat. 1694) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2023''; and
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2024''.

     SEC. 322. GUIDANCE REGARDING USE OF ORGANIC INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       The Secretary of the Army shall maintain the arsenals with 
     sufficient workloads to ensure affordability and technical 
     competence in all critical capability areas by establishing, 
     not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act, 
     clear, step-by-step, prescriptive guidance on the process for 
     conducting make-or-buy analyses, including the use of the 
     organic industrial base.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

     SEC. 331. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PERSONNEL AND UNIT READINESS.

       (a) Modification and Improvement.--Section 482 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) by striking ``Each report'' and inserting ``The reports 
     for the first and third quarters of a calendar year''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
     reports for the second and fourth quarters of a calendar year 
     shall contain the information required by subsection (j).'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``and Remedial 
     Actions'';
       (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``Each report'' and inserting ``A report for the second or 
     fourth quarter of a calendar year'';
       (C) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (D) by striking paragraph (2); and
       (E) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);
       (3) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (4) in subsection (e), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (5) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year'';
       (6) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``Each report'' and 
     inserting ``A report for the second or fourth quarter of a 
     calendar year''; and
       (7) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(j) Remedial Actions.--A report for the first or third 
     quarter of a calendar year shall include--

[[Page H5556]]

       ``(1) a description of the mitigation plans of the 
     Secretary to address readiness shortfalls and operational 
     deficiencies identified in the report submitted for the 
     preceding calendar quarter; and
       ``(2) for each such shortfall or deficiency, a timeline for 
     resolution, the cost necessary for such resolution, the 
     mitigation strategy the Department will employ until the 
     resolution is in place, and any legislative remedies 
     required.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 117 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly''and 
     inserting ``Semi-annual''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``quarterly'' and 
     inserting ``semi-annual''; and
       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``each quarter'' and 
     inserting ``semi-annually''.

     SEC. 332. BIENNIAL REPORT ON CORE DEPOT-LEVEL MAINTENANCE AND 
                   REPAIR CAPABILITY.

       Section 2464(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) Any workload shortfalls at any work breakdown 
     structure category designated as a lower-level category 
     pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 4151.20, or any 
     successor instruction.
       ``(5) A description of any workload executed at a category 
     designated as a first-level category pursuant to such 
     Instruction, or any successor instruction, that could be used 
     to mitigate shortfalls in similar categories.
       ``(6) A description of any progress made on implementing 
     mitigation plans developed pursuant to paragraph (3).
       ``(7) A description of core capability requirements and 
     corresponding workloads at the first level category.
       ``(8) In the case of any shortfall that is identified, a 
     description of the shortfall and an identification of the 
     subcategory of the work breakdown structure in which the 
     shortfall occurred.
       ``(9) In the case of any work breakdown structure category 
     designated as a special interest item or other pursuant to 
     such Instruction, or any successor instruction, an 
     explanation for such designation.
       ``(10) Whether the core depot-level maintenance and repair 
     capability requirements described in the report submitted 
     under this subsection for the preceding fiscal year have been 
     executed.''.

     SEC. 333. ANNUAL REPORT ON PERSONNEL, TRAINING, AND EQUIPMENT 
                   NEEDS OF NON-FEDERALIZED NATIONAL GUARD.

       (a) Annual Report Required.--Section 10504 of title 10, 
     United States Code, as amended by section 1051, is further 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Report.--'' 
     and inserting ``Report on State of the National Guard.--
     (1)''; and
       (B) by striking ``The report' ''' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(2) The annual report required by paragraph (1)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Annual Report on Non-Federalized Service National 
     Guard Personnel, Training, and Equipment Requirements.--(1) 
     Not later than January 31 of each of calendar years 2018 
     through 2022, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall 
     submit to the recipients described in paragraph (3) a report 
     that identifies the personnel, training, and equipment 
     required by the non-federalized National Guard--
       ``(A) to support civilian authorities in connection with 
     natural and man-made disasters during the covered period; and
       ``(B) to carry out prevention, protection, mitigation, 
     response, and recovery activities relating to such disasters 
     during the covered period.
       ``(2) In preparing each report under paragraph (1), the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall--
       ``(A) consult with the chief executive of each State, the 
     Council of Governors, and other appropriate civilian 
     authorities;
       ``(B) collect and validate information from each State 
     relating to the personnel, training, and equipment 
     requirements described in paragraph (1);
       ``(C) set forth separately the personnel, training, and 
     equipment requirements for--
       ``(i) each of the emergency support functions of the 
     National Response Framework; and
       ``(ii) each of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
     regions;
       ``(D) assess core civilian capability gaps relating to 
     natural and man-made disasters, as identified by States in 
     submissions to the Department of Homeland Security; and
       ``(E) take into account threat and hazard identifications 
     and risk assessments of the Department of Defense, the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and the States.
       ``(3) The annual report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted to the following officials:
       ``(A) The congressional defense committees, the Committee 
     on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
     the Senate.
       ``(B) The Secretary of Defense.
       ``(C) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
       ``(D) The Council of Governors.
       ``(E) The Secretary of the Army.
       ``(F) The Secretary of the Air Force.
       ``(G) The Commander of the United States Northern Command.
       ``(H) The Commander of the United States Pacific Command.
       ``(I) The Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `covered period' means 
     the fiscal year beginning after the date on which a report is 
     submitted under paragraph (1).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
     amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 10504. Chief of National Guard Bureau: annual 
       reports''.

       (2) Table of contents.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 1011 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 10504 and 
     inserting the following:

``10504. Chief of National Guard Bureau: annual reports.''.

     SEC. 334. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY WORKING DOGS USED BY THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Capacity.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
     Executive Agent for Military Working Dogs (hereinafter in 
     this section referred to as the ``Executive Agent''), shall--
       (1) identify the number of military working dogs required 
     to fulfill the various missions of the Department of Defense 
     for which such dogs are used, including force protection, 
     facility and check point security, and explosives and drug 
     detection;
       (2) take such steps as are practicable to ensure an 
     adequate number of military working dog teams are available 
     to meet and sustain the mission requirements identified in 
     paragraph (1);
       (3) ensure that the Department's needs and performance 
     standards with respect to military working dogs are readily 
     available to dog breeders and trainers; and
       (4) coordinate with other Federal, State, and local 
     agencies, nonprofit organizations, universities, and private 
     sector entities, as appropriate, to increase the training 
     capacity for military working dog teams.
       (b) Military Working Dog Procurement.--The Secretary, 
     acting through the Executive Agent, shall work to ensure that 
     military working dogs are procured as efficiently as possible 
     and at the best value to the Government, while maintaining 
     the necessary level of quality and encouraging increased 
     domestic breeding.
       (c) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2018, and annually thereafter until September 
     30, 2021, the Secretary, acting through the Executive Agent, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the procurement and retirement of military working dogs 
     for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which 
     the report is submitted. Each report under this subsection 
     shall include the following for the fiscal year covered by 
     the report:
       (1) The number of military working dogs procured, by 
     source, by each military department or Defense Agency.
       (2) The cost of procuring military working dogs incurred by 
     each military department or Defense Agency.
       (3) The number of domestically bred and sourced military 
     working dogs procured by each military department or Defense 
     Agency, including a list of vendors, their location, cost, 
     and the quantity of dogs procured from each vendor.
       (4) The number of non-domestically bred military working 
     dogs procured from non-domestic sources by each military 
     department or Defense Agency, including a list of vendors, 
     their location, cost, and the quantity of dogs procured from 
     each vendor.
       (5) The cost of procuring pre-trained and green dogs for 
     force protection, facility and checkpoint security, and 
     improvised explosive device, other explosives, and drug 
     detection.
       (6) An analysis of the procurement practices of each 
     military department or Defense Agency that limit market 
     access for domestic canine vendors and breeders.
       (7) The total cost of procuring domestically bred military 
     working dogs versus the total cost of procuring dogs from 
     non-domestic sources.
       (8) The total number of domestically bred dogs and the 
     number of dogs from foreign sources procured by each military 
     department or Defense Agency and the number and percentage of 
     those dogs that are ultimately deployed for their intended 
     use.
       (9) An explanation for any significant difference in the 
     cost of procuring military working dogs from different 
     sources.
       (10) An estimate of the number of military working dogs 
     expected to retire annually and an identification of the 
     primary cause of the retirement of such dogs.
       (11) An identification of the final disposition of military 
     working dogs no longer in service.
       (d) Military Working Dog Defined.--For purposes of this 
     section, the term ``military working dog'' means a dog used 
     in any official military capacity, as defined by the 
     Secretary of Defense.

     SEC. 335. ANNUAL BRIEFINGS ON ARMY EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE 
                   DISPOSAL.

       Not later than 60 days after the last day of each of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2021, the Secretary of the Army shall 
     provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives briefings on the actions the Army 
     has taken to address the following:
       (1) Programmed funding and manpower to establish and 
     implement the explosive ordnance disposal (hereinafter 
     referred to as ``EOD'') assistant commandant position in the 
     Army Ordnance School.
       (2) EOD personnel talent management, including command 
     opportunities and promotion within the Army logistics cohort, 
     and career broadening opportunities, including participation 
     in joint, interagency, and multinational EOD commissioned 
     officer and non-commissioned officer positions.
       (3) How the EOD career path ensures and maintains technical 
     proficiency for EOD-qualified personnel.

[[Page H5557]]

       (4) Efforts to improve EOD proponency and advocacy across 
     the Army, including activities of the EOD Board of Advisors.
       (5) Efforts to enhance synchronization of EOD with other 
     Army missions and functions and retain critical 
     interdependencies.
       (6) Annual funding programmed through the future-years 
     defense program and executed during the preceding fiscal year 
     for EOD requirements including personnel, training, and 
     equipment.

     SEC. 336. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Secretary of Defense James Mattis has stated: ``It is 
     appropriate for the Combatant Commands to incorporate drivers 
     of instability that impact the security environment in their 
     areas into their planning.''.
       (2) Secretary of Defense James Mattis has stated: ``I agree 
     that the effects of a changing climate -- such as increased 
     maritime access to the Arctic, rising sea levels, 
     desertification, among others -- impact our security 
     situation.''.
       (3) Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford 
     has stated: ``It's a question, once again, of being forward 
     deployed, forward engaged, and be in a position to respond to 
     the kinds of natural disasters that I think we see as a 
     second or third order effect of climate change.''.
       (4) Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has stated: 
     ``Over the next 20 years and more, certain pressures-
     population, energy, climate, economic, environmental-could 
     combine with rapid cultural, social, and technological change 
     to produce new sources of deprivation, rage, and 
     instability.''.
       (5) Former Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army Gordon Sullivan 
     has stated: ``Climate change is a national security issue. We 
     found that climate instability will lead to instability in 
     geopolitics and impact American military operations around 
     the world.''.
       (6) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
     (ODNI) has stated: ``Many countries will encounter climate-
     induced disruptions--such as weather-related disasters, 
     drought, famine, or damage to infrastructure--that stress 
     their capacity to respond, cope with, or adapt. Climate-
     related impacts will also contribute to increased migration, 
     which can be particularly disruptive if, for example, demand 
     for food and shelter outstrips the resources available to 
     assist those in need.''.
       (7) The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has stated: 
     ``DOD links changes in precipitation patterns with potential 
     climate change impacts such as changes in the number of 
     consecutive days of high or low precipitation as well as 
     increases in the extent and duration of droughts, with an 
     associated increase in the risk of wildfire. . . this may 
     result in mission vulnerabilities such as reduced live-fire 
     training due to drought and increased wildfire risk.''.
       (8) A three-foot rise in sea levels will threaten the 
     operations of more than 128 United States military sites, and 
     it is possible that many of these at-risk bases could be 
     submerged in the coming years.
       (9) As global temperatures rise, droughts and famines can 
     lead to more failed states, which are breeding grounds of 
     extremist and terrorist organizations.
       (10) In the Marshall Islands, an Air Force radar 
     installation built on an atoll at a cost of $1,000,000,000 is 
     projected to be underwater within two decades.
       (11) In the western United States, drought has amplified 
     the threat of wildfires, and floods have damaged roads, 
     runways, and buildings on military bases.
       (12) In the Arctic, the combination of melting sea ice, 
     thawing permafrost, and sea-level rise is eroding shorelines, 
     which is damaging radar and communication installations, 
     runways, seawalls, and training areas.
       (13) In the Yukon Training Area, units conducting artillery 
     training accidentally started a wildfire despite observing 
     the necessary practices during red flag warning conditions.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) climate change is a direct threat to the national 
     security of the United States and is impacting stability in 
     areas of the world both where the United States Armed Forces 
     are operating today, and where strategic implications for 
     future conflict exist;
       (2) there are complexities in quantifying the cost of 
     climate change on mission resiliency, but the Department of 
     Defense must ensure that it is prepared to conduct operations 
     both today and in the future and that it is prepared to 
     address the effects of a changing climate on threat 
     assessments, resources, and readiness; and
       (3) military installations must be able to effectively 
     prepare to mitigate climate damage in their master planning 
     and infrastructure planning and design, so that they might 
     best consider the weather and natural resources most 
     pertinent to them.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
     vulnerabilities to military installations and combatant 
     commander requirements resulting from climate change over the 
     next 20 years.
       (2) Elements.--The report on vulnerabilities to military 
     installations and combatant commander requirements required 
     by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
       (A) A list of the ten most vulnerable military 
     installations within each service based on the effects of 
     rising sea tides, increased flooding, drought, 
     desertification, wildfires, thawing permafrost, and any other 
     categories the Secretary determines necessary.
       (B) An overview of mitigations that may be necessary to 
     ensure the continued operational viability and to increase 
     the resiliency of the identified vulnerable military 
     installations and the cost of such mitigations.
       (C) A discussion of the climate-change related effects on 
     the Department, including the increase in the frequency of 
     humanitarian assistance and disaster relief missions and the 
     theater campaign plans, contingency plans, and global posture 
     of the combatant commanders.
       (D) An overview of mitigations that may be necessary to 
     ensure mission resiliency and the cost of such mitigations.
       (3) Form.--The report required subparagraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

     SEC. 341. EXPLOSIVE SAFETY BOARD.

       (a) Modification and Improvement of Ammunition Storage 
     Board.--Section 172 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Secretaries of the military departments'' 
     and inserting ``Secretary of Defense'';
       (2) by inserting ``that includes members'' after ``joint 
     board'';
       (3) by striking ``selected by them'' and inserting 
     ``selected by the Secretaries of the military departments,'';
       (4) by inserting ``military'' before ``officers'';
       (5) by inserting ``designated as the chair and voting 
     members of the board for each military department'' after 
     ``officers'';
       (6) by inserting ``and other'' before ``civilian 
     officers'';
       (7) by striking ``or both'' and inserting ``as necessary''; 
     and
       (8) by striking ``keep informed on stored'' and inserting 
     ``provide oversight on storage and transportation of''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 172 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Ammunition 
     storage'' and inserting ``Explosive safety''.
       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking 
     the item relating to section 172 and inserting the following 
     new item:

``172. Explosive safety board.''.

     SEC. 342. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR MILITARY SERVICE 
                   MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS THAT HIGHLIGHT THE ROLE 
                   OF WOMEN IN THE ARMED FORCES.

       The Secretary of Defense may provide financial support for 
     the acquisition, installation, and maintenance of exhibits, 
     facilities, historical displays, and programs at military 
     service memorials and museums that highlight the role of 
     women in the Armed Forces. The Secretary may enter into a 
     contract with a nonprofit organization for the purpose of 
     performing such acquisition, installation, and maintenance.

     SEC. 343. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ADVANCED 
                   SKILLS MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE SYSTEM OF THE NAVY.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended for the enhancement of the advanced 
     skills management software system of the Navy until a period 
     of 60 days has elapsed following the date on which Secretary 
     of the Navy makes the submission required under subsection 
     (b)(3).
       (b) Briefing and Certification.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     shall--
       (1) provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives a briefing on any enhancements that are 
     needed for the advanced skills management software system of 
     the Navy;
       (2) after providing the briefing under paragraph (1), issue 
     a request for information for such enhancements in accordance 
     with part 15.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
       (3) submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives--
       (A) the results of the request for information issued under 
     paragraph (2); and
       (B) a written certification that--
       (i) as part of the request for information, the Secretary 
     solicited information on commercially available off-the-shelf 
     software solutions that may be used to enhance the advanced 
     skills management software system of the Navy; and
       (ii) the Secretary has considered using such solutions.
       (c) Advanced Skills Management Software System Defined.--In 
     this section, the term ``advanced skills management software 
     system'' means a software application designed to--
       (1) identify job task requirements for Navy personnel;
       (2) assist in determining the proficiencies of such 
     personnel;
       (3) document qualifications and certifications of such 
     personnel; and
       (4) track the technical training completed by Navy aviation 
     maintenance personnel.

     SEC. 344. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF UNIFORM SPECIFICATIONS FOR 
                   AFGHAN MILITARY OR SECURITY FORCES.

       Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     whenever the Secretary of Defense enters into a contract for 
     the provision of uniforms for Afghan military or security 
     forces, the Secretary shall require, as a condition of the 
     contract, that the contract include a requirement that the 
     contractor conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the uniform 
     specification for the Afghan military or security forces 
     uniform. Such analysis shall determine--
       (1) whether there is a more effective alternative uniform 
     specification, considering both operational environment and 
     cost, available to the Afghan military or security forces;
       (2) the efficacy of the existing pattern compared to other 
     alternatives (both proprietary and non-proprietary patterns); 
     and

[[Page H5558]]

       (3) the costs and feasibility of transitioning the uniforms 
     of the Afghan military or security forces to a pattern owned 
     by the United States, using existing excess inventory where 
     available, and acquiring the rights to the Spec4ce Forest 
     pattern.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

     SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

       The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty 
     personnel as of September 30, 2018, as follows:
       (1) The Army, 486,000.
       (2) The Navy, 327,900.
       (3) The Marine Corps, 185,000.
       (4) The Air Force, 325,100.

     SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH 
                   MINIMUM LEVELS.

       Section 691(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting the 
     following new paragraphs:
       ``(1) For the Army, 486,000.
       ``(2) For the Navy, 327,900.
       ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 185,000.
       ``(4) For the Air Force, 325,100.''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

     SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

       (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths 
     for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as 
     of September 30, 2018, as follows:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 347,000.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 202,000.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 106,600.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,800.
       (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
       (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed 
     by subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve 
     component shall be proportionately reduced by--
       (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
     serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component 
     which are on active duty (other than for training) at the end 
     of the fiscal year; and
       (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
     organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
     component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
     for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
     consent at the end of the fiscal year.
       (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual 
     members of the Selected Reserve for any reserve component are 
     released from active duty during any fiscal year, the end 
     strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected 
     Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased 
     proportionately by the total authorized strengths of such 
     units and by the total number of such individual members.

     SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN 
                   SUPPORT OF THE RESERVES.

       Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the 
     reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of 
     September 30, 2018, the following number of Reserves to be 
     serving on full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the 
     case of members of the National Guard, for the purpose of 
     organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or 
     training the reserve components:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,155.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,101.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,260.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 3,588.

     SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL 
                   STATUS).

       (a) In General.--The authorized number of military 
     technicians (dual status) as of September 30, 2018, for the 
     reserve components of the Army and the Air Force 
     (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States Code) 
     shall be the following:
       (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
     25,507.
       (2) For the Army Reserve, 7,427.
       (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
     21,893.
       (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 10,160.
       (b) Variance.--Notwithstanding section 115 of title 10, 
     United States Code, the end strength prescribed by subsection 
     (a) for a reserve component specified in that subsection may 
     be increased--
       (1) by 3 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is in the national interest; and
       (2) by 2 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of 
     the military department concerned that such action would 
     enhance manning and readiness in essential units or in 
     critical specialties or ratings.

     SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2018 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL 
                   STATUS TECHNICIANS.

       (a) Limitations.--
       (1) National guard.--Within the limitation provided in 
     section 10217(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the 
     number of non-dual status technicians employed by the 
     National Guard as of September 30, 2018, may not exceed the 
     following:
       (A) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
     1,600.
       (B) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 350.
       (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
     technicians employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 
     2018, may not exceed 420.
       (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
     technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 
     30, 2018, may not exceed 90.
       (b) Non-dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 10217(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO 
                   BE ON ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

       During fiscal year 2018, the maximum number of members of 
     the reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving 
     at any time on full-time operational support duty under 
     section 115(b) of title 10, United States Code, is the 
     following:
       (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
       (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
       (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
       (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
       (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
       (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
     the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise 
     provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4401.
       (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
     appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other 
     authorization of appropriations (definite or indefinite) for 
     such purpose for fiscal year 2018.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

          Subtitle A--Regular and Reserve Component Management

     SEC. 501. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CONVERSION 
                   OF CERTAIN MILITARY TECHNICIAN (DUAL STATUS) 
                   POSITIONS TO CIVILIAN POSITIONS.

       (a) Revised Reduction and Deadline.--Section 1053(a)(1) of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 10216 note), as amended by 
     section 1084(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2421), is 
     further amended--
       (1) by striking ``October 1, 2017'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2018''; and
       (2) by striking ``20 percent'' and inserting ``10 
     percent''.
       (b) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than March 1, 2018, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     a report containing such recommendations as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate for revising section 709 of title 32, 
     United States Code, regarding the employment, use, and status 
     of military technicians in the National Guard. The Secretary 
     shall prepare the recommendations in consultation with the 
     Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Air Force, and 
     the Chief of the National Guard Bureau.

     SEC. 502. PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF RETIRED SENIOR ENLISTED 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AS ARMY 
                   NATIONAL GUARD RECRUITERS.

       (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army 
     may carry out a pilot program for the Army National Guard 
     under which retired senior enlisted members of the Army 
     National Guard would serve as contract recruiters for the 
     Army National Guard.
       (b) Objectives of Pilot Program.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall design any pilot program conducted under this section 
     to determine the following:
       (1) The feasibility and effectiveness of hiring retired 
     senior enlisted members of the Army National Guard who have 
     retired within the previous two years to serve as recruiters.
       (2) The merits of hiring such retired senior enlisted 
     members as contractors or as employees of the Department of 
     Defense.
       (3) The best method of providing a competitive compensation 
     package for such retired senior enlisted members.
       (4) The merits of requiring such retired senior enlisted 
     members to wear a military uniform while performing 
     recruiting duties under the pilot program.
       (c) Consultation.--In developing a pilot program under this 
     section, the Secretary of the Army shall consult with the 
     operators of a previous pilot program carried out by the Army 
     involving the use of contract recruiters.
       (d) Commencement and Duration.--The Secretary of the Army 
     may commence a pilot program under this section on or after 
     January 1, 2018, and all activities under such a pilot 
     program shall terminate no later than December 31, 2022.
       (e) Reporting Requirement.--If a pilot program is conducted 
     under this section, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report containing an 
     evaluation of the success of the pilot program, including the 
     determinations described in subsection (b). The report shall 
     be submitted not later than January 1, 2020.

     SEC. 503. EQUAL TREATMENT OF ORDERS TO SERVE ON ACTIVE DUTY 
                   UNDER SECTION 12304A AND 12304B OF TITLE 10, 
                   UNITED STATES CODE.

       (a) Eligibility of Reserve Component Members for Pre-
     mobilization Health Care.--Section 1074(d)(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``in support

[[Page H5559]]

     of a contingency operation under'' and inserting ``under 
     section 12304b of this title or''.
       (b) Eligibility of Reserve Component Members for 
     Transitional Health Care.--Section 1145(a)(2)(B) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``in support of a 
     contingency operation'' and inserting ``under section 12304b 
     of this title or a provision of law referred to in section 
     101(a)(13)(B) of this title''.

     SEC. 504. DIRECT EMPLOYMENT PILOT PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
                   NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

       (a) Program Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
     out a pilot program to enhance the efforts of the Department 
     of Defense to provide job placement assistance and related 
     employment services directly to members in the National Guard 
     and Reserves.
       (b) Administration.--The pilot program shall be offered to, 
     and administered by, the adjutants general appointed under 
     section 314 of title 32, United States Code.
       (c) Cost-sharing Requirement.--As a condition on the 
     provision of funds under this section to a State to support 
     the operation of the pilot program in the State, the State 
     must agree to contribute an amount, derived from non-Federal 
     sources, equal to at least 30 percent of the funds provided 
     by the Secretary of Defense under this section.
       (d) Direct Employment Program Model.--The pilot program 
     should follow a job placement program model that focuses on 
     working one-on-one with a member of a reserve component to 
     cost-effectively provide job placement services, including 
     services such as identifying unemployed and under employed 
     members, job matching services, resume editing, interview 
     preparation, and post-employment follow up. Development of 
     the pilot program should be informed by State direct 
     employment programs for members of the reserve components, 
     such as the programs conducted in California and South 
     Carolina.
       (e) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
     outcome measurements to evaluate the success of the pilot 
     program.
       (f) Reporting Requirements.--
       (1) Report required.--Not later than January 31, 2022, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report describing the results of the pilot program. The 
     Secretary shall prepare the report in coordination with the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
       (2) Elements of report.--A report under paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A description and assessment of the effectiveness and 
     achievements of the pilot program, including the number of 
     members of the reserve components hired and the cost-per-
     placement of participating members.
       (B) An assessment of the impact of the pilot program and 
     increased reserve component employment levels on the 
     readiness of members of the reserve components.
       (C) Any other matters considered appropriate by the 
     Secretary.
       (g) Duration of Authority.--
       (1) In general.--The authority to carry out the pilot 
     program expires September 30, 2020.
       (2) Extension.--Upon the expiration of the authority under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may extend the pilot 
     program for not more than two additional fiscal years.

  Subtitle B--General Service Authorities and Correction of Military 
                                Records

     SEC. 511. CONSIDERATION OF ADDITIONAL MEDICAL EVIDENCE BY 
                   BOARDS FOR THE CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS 
                   AND LIBERAL CONSIDERATION OF EVIDENCE RELATING 
                   TO POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER OR TRAUMATIC 
                   BRAIN INJURY.

       (a) In General.--Section 1552 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
     (i) and (j), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
     subsection (h):
       ``(h)(1) This subsection applies to a former member of the 
     armed forces whose claim under this section for review of a 
     discharge or dismissal is based in whole or in part on 
     matters relating to post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury as supporting rationale, or as 
     justification for priority consideration, and whose post-
     traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury is 
     related to combat or military sexual trauma, as determined by 
     the Secretary concerned.
       ``(2) In the case of a claimant described in paragraph (1), 
     a board established under subsection (a)(1) shall--
       ``(A) review medical evidence of the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs or a civilian health care provider that is presented 
     by the claimant; and
       ``(B) review the claim with liberal consideration to the 
     claimant that post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic 
     brain injury potentially contributed to the circumstances 
     resulting in the discharge or dismissal or to the original 
     characterization of the claimant's discharge or dismissal.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1553(d)(3)(A)(ii) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     ``discharge of a lesser characterization'' and inserting 
     ``discharge or dismissal or to the original characterization 
     of the member's discharge or dismissal''.

     SEC. 512. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION RELATED TO 
                   DISPOSITION OF CLAIMS REGARDING DISCHARGE OR 
                   RELEASE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHEN THE 
                   CLAIMS INVOLVE SEXUAL ASSAULT.

       (a) Boards for the Correction of Military Records.--
     Subsection (i) of section 1552, United States Code, as 
     redesignated by section 511, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The number and disposition of claims decided during 
     the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which 
     such information is made available in which sexual assault is 
     alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to 
     the original characterization of the discharge or release of 
     the claimant.''.
       (b) Discharge Review Boards.--Section 1553(f) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The number and disposition of claims decided during 
     the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which 
     such information is made available in which sexual assault is 
     alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or in part, to 
     the original characterization of the discharge or release of 
     the claimant.''.

     SEC. 513. PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF VIDEO TELECONFERENCING 
                   TECHNOLOGY BY BOARDS FOR THE CORRECTION OF 
                   MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS.

       (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     carry out a pilot program under which boards for the 
     correction of military records established under section 1552 
     of title 10, United States Code, and discharge review boards 
     established under section 1553 of such title are authorized 
     to utilize video teleconferencing technology in the 
     performance of their duties.
       (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the pilot program is to 
     evaluate the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of utilizing 
     video teleconferencing technology to allow persons who raise 
     a claim before a board for the correction of military 
     records, persons who request a review by a discharge review 
     board, and witnesses who present evidence to such a board to 
     appear before such a board without being physically present.
       (c) Implementation.--As part of the pilot program, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall make funds available to develop 
     the capabilities of boards for the correction of military 
     records and discharge review boards to effectively use video 
     teleconferencing technology.
       (d) No Expansion of Eligibility.--Nothing in the pilot 
     program is intended to alter the eligibility criteria of 
     persons who may raise a claim before a board for the 
     correction of military records, request a review by a 
     discharge review board, or present evidence to such a board.
       (e) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary of Defense 
     to carry out the pilot program shall terminate on December 
     31, 2020.

     SEC. 514. INCLUSION OF SPECIFIC EMAIL ADDRESS BLOCK ON 
                   CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DISCHARGE FROM ACTIVE 
                   DUTY (DD FORM 214).

       (a) Modification Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     modify the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active 
     Duty (DD Form 214) to include a specific block explicitly 
     identified as the location in which a member of the Armed 
     Forces may provide one or more email addresses by which the 
     member may be contacted after discharge or release from 
     active duty in the Armed Forces.
       (b) Deadline for Modification.--The Secretary of Defense 
     shall release a revised Certificate of Release or Discharge 
     from Active Duty (DD Form 214), modified as required by 
     subsection (a), not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 515. PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON NATURALIZATION THROUGH 
                   MILITARY SERVICE.

       The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that members of the 
     Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps who are aliens 
     lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
     residence are informed of the availability of naturalization 
     through service in the Armed Forces under section 328 of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439) and the 
     process by which to pursue naturalization. The Secretary 
     shall ensure that resources are available to assist qualified 
     members of the Armed Forces to navigate the application and 
     naturalization process.

          Subtitle C--Military Justice and Other Legal Issues

     SEC. 521. CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE UNIFORM CODE 
                   OF MILITARY JUSTICE REFORM BY THE MILITARY 
                   JUSTICE ACT OF 2016.

       (a) Enforcement of Rights of Victims of Offenses Under 
     UCMJ.--Section 806b(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code 
     (article 6b(e)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
     is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
       (2) by striking ``President, and, to the extent 
     practicable, shall have priority over all other proceedings 
     before the court.'' and inserting the following; ``President, 
     subject to section 830a of this title (article 30a).''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(B) To the extent practicable, a petition for a writ of 
     mandamus described in this subsection shall have priority 
     over all other proceedings before the Court of Criminal 
     Appeals.
       ``(C) Review of any decision by the Court of Criminal 
     Appeals on a petition for a writ of mandamus described in 
     this subsection shall have priority in the Court of Appeals 
     for the Armed Forces, as determined under the rules of the 
     Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.''.
       (b) Review of Certain Matters Before Referral of Charges 
     and Specifications.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 830a of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 30a of the Uniform Code 
     of Military Justice), as added by section 5202 of the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328; 130 Stat. 2904), is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) Pre-referral matters under subsection (c) or (e) of 
     section 806b of this title (article 6b).''.
       (c) Defense Counsel Assistance in Post-trial Matters for 
     Accused Convicted by Court-martial.--Section 838(c)(2) of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 38(c)(2) of the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice), is amended by

[[Page H5560]]

     striking ``section 860 of this title (article 60)'' and 
     inserting ``section 860, 860a, or 860b of this title (article 
     60, 60a, or 60b)''.
       (d) Limitation on Acceptance of Plea Agreements.--
     Subsection (b) of section 853a of title 10, United States 
     Code (article 53a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
     as added by section 5237 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2917), is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting 
     a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) is prohibited by law; or
       ``(5) is contrary to, or is inconsistent with, a regulation 
     prescribed by the President with respect to terms, 
     conditions, or other aspects of plea agreements.''.
       (e) Applicability of Standards and Procedures to Sentence 
     Appeal by the United States.--Subsection (d)(1) of section 
     856 of title 10, United States Code (article 56 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5301 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2919), is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
     after ``concerned,'' the following: ``and consistent with 
     standards and procedures set forth in regulations prescribed 
     by the President,''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before the period at 
     the end the following: ``, as determined in accordance with 
     standards and procedures prescribed by the President''.
       (f) Sentence of Reduction in Enlisted Grade.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 858a of title 
     10, United States Code (article 58a of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as amended by section 5303(1) of the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328; 130 Stat. 2923), is further amended in the matter after 
     paragraph (3) by striking ``, effective on the date'' and 
     inserting the following: ``, if such a reduction is 
     authorized by regulation prescribed by the President. The 
     reduction in pay grade shall take effect on the date''.
       (2) Section heading.--The heading of section 858a of title 
     10, United States Code (article 58a of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 858a. Art 58a. Sentences: reduction in enlisted 
       grade''.

       (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter VIII of chapter 47 of title 10, 
     United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 858a 
     (article 58a) and inserting the following new item:

``858a. 58a. Sentences: reduction in enlisted grade.''.
       (g) Convening Authority Authorities.--Section 858b(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code (article 58b(b) of the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice), is amended in the first sentence 
     by striking ``section 860 of this title (article 60)'' and 
     inserting ``section 860a or 860b of this title (article 60a 
     or 60b)''.
       (h) Appeal by the United State.--Section 862(b) of title 
     10, United States Code (article 62(b) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), is amended by striking ``, notwithstanding 
     section 866(c) of this title (article 66(c))''.
       (i) Rehearing and Sentencing.--Subsection (b) of section 
     863 of title 10, United States Code (article 63 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5327 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2929), is amended by inserting before the 
     period at the end the following: ``, subject to such 
     limitations as the President may prescribe by regulation''.
       (j) Courts of Criminal Appeals.--Section 866 of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as amended by section 5330 of the Military 
     Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 
     Stat. 2932), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by inserting after 
     ``required'' the following: ``by regulation prescribed by the 
     President or''; and
       (2) in subsection (f)(3), by adding at the end the 
     following new sentence: ``If the Court of Appeals for the 
     Armed Forces determines that additional proceedings are 
     warranted, the Court of Criminal Appeals shall order a 
     hearing or other proceeding in accordance with the direction 
     of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.''.
       (k) Military Justice Review Panel.--Subsection (f) of 
     section 946 of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of 
     the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by section 
     5521 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of 
     Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2962), is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' in 
     the first sentence and inserting ``fiscal year 2021'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the sentence beginning 
     ``Not later than'' and inserting the following new sentence: 
     ``The analysis under this paragraph shall be included in the 
     assessment required by paragraph (1).''; and
       (3) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following 
     new paragraph (5):
       ``(5) Reports.--With respect to each review and assessment 
     under this subsection, the Panel shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives. Each report--
       ``(A) shall set forth the results of the review and 
     assessment concerned, including the findings and 
     recommendations of the Panel; and
       ``(B) shall be submitted not later than December 31 of the 
     calendar year in which the review and assessment is 
     concluded.''.
       (l) Transitional Compensation for Dependents of Members 
     Separated for Dependent Abuse.--Section 1059(e) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), by striking ``the approval 
     of'' and all that follows through ``as approved,'' and 
     inserting ``entry of judgment under section 860c of this 
     title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
     if the sentence''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``by a court-martial'' 
     the second place it appears and all that follows through 
     ``include any such punishment,'' and inserting ``for a 
     dependent-abuse offense and the conviction is disapproved or 
     is otherwise not part of the judgment under section 860c of 
     this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice) or the punishment is disapproved or is otherwise not 
     part of the judgment under such section (article),''.
       (m) Benefits for Dependents Who Are Victims of Abuse by 
     Members Losing Right to Retired Pay.--Section 1408(h)(10)(A) 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the 
     approval'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     subparagraph and inserting ``entry of judgment under section 
     860c of this title (article 60c of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice).''.
       (n) Treatment of Certain Offenses Pending Execution of 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 Amendments.--
       (1) Child abuse offenses.--With respect to offenses 
     committed before the date designated by the President under 
     section 5542(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division 
     E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2967), subsection 
     (b)(2)(B) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code 
     (article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall 
     be applied as in effect on December 22, 2016.
       (2) Fraudulent enlistment or appointment offenses.--With 
     respect to the period beginning on December 23, 2016, and 
     ending on the day before the date designated by the President 
     under section 5542(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2967), in the 
     application of subsection (h) of section 843 of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 43 of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as added by section 5225(b) of that Act 
     (130 Stat. 2909), the reference in such subsection (h) to 
     section 904a(1) of title 10, United States Code (article 
     104a(1) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to section 883(1) of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 83(1) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice).
       (o) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that 
     Act (130 Stat. 2967).

     SEC. 522. MINIMUM CONFINEMENT PERIOD REQUIRED FOR CONVICTION 
                   OF CERTAIN SEX-RELATED OFFENSES COMMITTED BY 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) Mandatory Punishments.--Section 856(b)(1) of title 10, 
     United States Code (article 56(b)(1) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice), as amended by section 5301 of the Military 
     Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 
     Stat. 2919), is further amended by striking ``shall include 
     dismissal or dishonorable discharge, as applicable.'' and 
     inserting the following: ``shall include, at a minimum--
       ``(A) dismissal or dishonorable discharge, as applicable; 
     and
       ``(B) confinement for two years.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that 
     Act (130 Stat. 2967).

     SEC. 523. PROHIBITION ON WRONGFUL BROADCAST OR DISTRIBUTION 
                   OF INTIMATE VISUAL IMAGES.

       (a) Prohibition.--Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 917 
     (article 117 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) the 
     following new section (article):

     ``Sec. 917a. Art. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of 
       intimate visual images

       ``(a) Prohibition.--Any person subject to this chapter 
     who--
       ``(1) knowingly and wrongfully broadcasts or distributes an 
     intimate visual image of a private area of another person 
     who--
       ``(A) is at least 18 years of age at the time the intimate 
     visual image was created;
       ``(B) is identifiable from the image itself or from 
     information displayed in connection with the image; and
       ``(C) does not explicitly consent to the broadcast or 
     distribution of the intimate visual image;
       ``(2) knows or reasonably should have known that the 
     intimate visual image was made under circumstances in which 
     the person depicted in the intimate visual image retained a 
     reasonable expectation of privacy regarding any broadcast or 
     distribution of the intimate visual image; and
       ``(3) knows or reasonably should have known that the 
     broadcast or distribution of the intimate visual image is 
     likely--
       ``(A) to cause harm, harassment, intimidation, emotional 
     distress, or financial loss for the person depicted in the 
     intimate visual image; or
       ``(B) to harm substantially the depicted person with 
     respect to that person's health, safety, business, calling, 
     career, financial condition, reputation, or personal 
     relationships;
     is guilty of wrongful distribution of intimate visual images 
     and shall by punished as a court-martial may direct.
       ``(b) Definitions.--In this section (article):
       ``(1) Broadcast.--The term `broadcast' means to 
     electronically transmit a visual image with the intent that 
     it be viewed by a person or persons.
       ``(2) Distribute.--The term `distribute' means to deliver 
     to the actual or constructive possession of another person, 
     including transmission by mail or electronic means.

[[Page H5561]]

       ``(3) Intimate visual image.--The term `intimate visual 
     image' means a photograph, video, film, or recording made by 
     any means that depicts a private area of a person.
       ``(4) Private area.--The term `private area' means the 
     naked or underwear-clad genitalia, anus, buttocks, or female 
     areola or nipple.
       ``(5) Reasonable expectation of privacy.--The term 
     `reasonable expectation of privacy' refers to circumstances 
     in which a reasonable person would believe that an intimate 
     visual image of a private area of the person would not be 
     broadcast or distributed to another person.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United 
     States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 917 
     (article 117) the following new item:

``917a. 117a. Wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual 
              images.''.

     SEC. 524. INFORMATION FOR THE SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL OR 
                   VICTIMS' LEGAL COUNSEL.

       Section 1044e(b)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``If 
     there is a military prosecution of the alleged sex-related 
     offense, the Special Victims' Counsel or Victims' Legal 
     Counsel shall be entitled to a copy of all case information 
     and documentation that is in the possession of the 
     prosecutor, relevant to such military prosecution, and not 
     privileged.''

     SEC. 525. SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL TRAINING REGARDING THE 
                   UNIQUE CHALLENGES OFTEN FACED BY MALE VICTIMS 
                   OF SEXUAL ASSAULT.

       The baseline Special Victims' Counsel training established 
     under section 1044e(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, 
     shall include training for Special Victims' Counsel to 
     recognize and deal with the unique challenges often faced by 
     male victims of sexual assault.

     SEC. 526. GARNISHMENT TO SATISFY JUDGMENT RENDERED FOR 
                   PHYSICALLY, SEXUALLY, OR EMOTIONALLY ABUSING A 
                   CHILD.

       (a) Garnishment Authority.--Section 1408 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(l) Garnishment to Satisfy a Judgment Rendered for 
     Physically, Sexually, or Emotionally Abusing a Child.--(1) 
     Subject to paragraph (2), any payment of retired pay that 
     would otherwise be made to a member shall be paid (in whole 
     or in part) by the Secretary concerned to another person if 
     and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(2) A court order providing for the payment of child 
     support or alimony or, with respect to a division of 
     property, specifically providing for the payment of an amount 
     of the disposable retired pay from a member to the spouse or 
     a former spouse of the member, shall be given priority over a 
     child abuse garnishment order. However, the limitations on 
     the amount of disposable retired pay available for payments 
     set forth in paragraphs (1) and (4)(B) of subsection (e) do 
     not apply to a child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(3) In this section, the term `court order' includes a 
     child abuse garnishment order.
       ``(4) In this subsection, the term `child abuse garnishment 
     order' means a final decree issued by a court that--
       ``(A) is issued in accordance with the laws of the 
     jurisdiction of that court; and
       ``(B) provides in the nature of garnishment for the 
     enforcement of a judgment rendered against the member for 
     physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
       ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, a judgment rendered 
     for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child is 
     any legal claim perfected through a final enforceable 
     judgment, which claim is based in whole or in part upon the 
     physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of an individual under 
     18 years of age, whether or not that abuse is accompanied by 
     other actionable wrongdoing, such as sexual exploitation or 
     gross negligence.
       ``(6) If the Secretary concerned is served with more than 
     one court order with respect to the retired pay of a member, 
     the disposable retired pay of the member shall be available 
     to satisfy such court orders on a first-come, first-served 
     basis, with any such process being satisfied out of such 
     moneys as remain after the satisfaction of all such processes 
     which have been previously served.
       ``(7) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to vary 
     normal pay and disbursement cycles for retired pay in order 
     to comply with a child abuse garnishment order.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--Subsection (l) of section 
     1408 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
     (a), shall apply with respect to a court order received by 
     the Secretary concerned on or after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, regardless of the date of the court order.

     SEC. 527. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION IN ANNUAL SAPRO REPORTS 
                   REGARDING MILITARY SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND 
                   INCIDENTS INVOLVING NONCONSENSUAL DISTRIBUTION 
                   OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.

       (a) Additional Reporting Requirements.--Section 1631(b) of 
     the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(13) Information and data collected on official and 
     unofficial reports of sexual harassment involving members of 
     the Armed Forces during the year covered by the report, as 
     follows:
       ``(A) The number of substantiated and unsubstantiated 
     reports.
       ``(B) A synopsis of each substantiated report.
       ``(C) The action taken in the case of each substantiated 
     report, including the type of disciplinary or administrative 
     sanction imposed, if any, such as--
       ``(i) conviction and sentence by court-martial;
       ``(ii) imposition of non-judicial punishment under section 
     815 of title 10, United States Code (article 15 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice); or
       ``(iii) administrative separation or other type of 
     administrative action imposed.
       ``(14) Information and data collected during the year 
     covered by the report on each reported incident involving the 
     nonconsensual distribution by a person subject to chapter 47 
     of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice) of a private sexual image of another person, 
     including the following:
       ``(A) The number of substantiated and unsubstantiated 
     reports.
       ``(B) A synopsis of each substantiated report.
       ``(C) The action taken in the case of each substantiated 
     report, including the type of disciplinary or administrative 
     sanction imposed, if any, such as--
       ``(i) conviction and sentence by court-martial;
       ``(ii) imposition of non-judicial punishment under section 
     815 of title 10, United States Code (article 15 of the 
     Uniform Code of Military Justice); or
       ``(iii) administrative separation or other type of 
     administrative action imposed.''.
       (b) Application of Amendment.--The amendment made by this 
     section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and apply beginning with the reports required to be 
     submitted by March 1, 2018, under section 1631 of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note).

     SEC. 528. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION IN ANNUAL SAPRO REPORTS 
                   REGARDING SEXUAL ASSAULTS COMMITTED BY A MEMBER 
                   OF THE ARMED FORCES AGAINST THE MEMBER'S SPOUSE 
                   OR OTHER FAMILY MEMBER.

       Beginning with the reports required to be submitted by 
     March 1, 2018, under section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
     111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note), information regarding a sexual 
     assault committed by a member of the Armed Forces against the 
     spouse or intimate partner of the member or another dependent 
     of the member shall be included in such reports in addition 
     to the annual Family Advocacy Program report. The information 
     shall be provided in such reports in the same manner as 
     information is provided with respect to other official and 
     unofficial reports of sexual assault.

     SEC. 529. NOTIFICATION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
                   UNDERGOING CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATIONS 
                   OF POTENTIAL ELIGIBILITY FOR VETERANS BENEFITS.

       (a) Notification Required.--A member of the Armed Forces 
     who receives an administrative separation or mandatory 
     discharge under conditions other than honorable shall be 
     provided written notification that the member may petition 
     the Veterans Benefits Administration of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to receive, despite the characterization of 
     the member's service, certain benefits under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
       (b) Deadline for Notification.--Notification under 
     subsection (a) shall be provided to a member described in 
     such subsection in conjunction with the member's notification 
     of the administrative separation or mandatory discharge or as 
     soon thereafter as practicable.

     SEC. 530. CONSISTENT ACCESS TO SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL FOR 
                   FORMER DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall revise Navy policy 
     regarding the eligibility of former dependents of members of 
     the Armed Forces to representation by a Victims' Legal 
     Counsel so that Navy policy is consistent with Army and Air 
     Force policy regarding Special Victims' Counsel, which 
     provides that a former dependent is eligible for such 
     representation if, while entitled to legal assistance, the 
     dependent was the victim of an alleged sex-related offense by 
     a member of the Armed Forces.

   Subtitle D--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

     SEC. 541. PROHIBITION ON RELEASE OF MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY 
                   GRADUATES TO PARTICIPATE IN PROFESSIONAL 
                   ATHLETICS.

       (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4348(a) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the cadet will not seek release from the 
     commissioned service obligation of the cadet to pursue a 
     career as a professional athlete and understands that the 
     appointment alternative described in paragraph (3) will not 
     be used to allow the cadet to pursue such a career.''.
       (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6959(a) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the midshipman will not seek release from the 
     commissioned service obligation of the midshipman to pursue a 
     career as a professional athlete and understands that the 
     appointment alternative described in paragraph (3) will not 
     be used to allow the midshipman to pursue such a career.''.
       (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9348(a) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) That the cadet will not seek release from the 
     commissioned service obligation of the cadet to pursue a 
     career as a professional athlete and understands that the 
     appointment alternative described in paragraph (2) will not 
     be used to allow the cadet to pursue such a career.''.
       (d) Application of Amendments.--The Secretaries of the 
     military departments shall

[[Page H5562]]

     promptly revise the cadet and midshipman service agreements 
     under sections 4348, 6959, and 9348 of title 10, United 
     States Code, to reflect the amendments made by this section. 
     The revised agreement shall apply to cadets and midshipmen 
     who are attending the United States Military Academy, the 
     United States Naval Academy, or the United States Air Force 
     Academy on the date of the enactment of this Act and to 
     persons who begin attendance at such military service 
     academies on or after that date.

     SEC. 542. ROTC CYBER INSTITUTES AT THE SENIOR MILITARY 
                   COLLEGES.

       (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
     out a program to establish a Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
     Cyber Institute (referred to in this Act as an ``ROTC Cyber 
     Institute'') at each of the senior military colleges for 
     purposes of accelerating the development of foundational 
     expertise in critical cyber operational skills for future 
     military and civilian leaders of the Armed Forces and 
     Department of Defense including such leaders of the reserve 
     components.
       (b) Elements.--Each ROTC Cyber Institute established under 
     the program authorized by subsection (a) shall include the 
     following:
       (1) Programs to provide future military and civilian 
     leaders of the Armed Forces or the Department of Defense, as 
     the case may be, who possess cyber operational expertise from 
     beginning through advanced skill levels. Such programs shall 
     include instruction and practical experiences that lead to 
     recognized certifications in the cyber field.
       (2) Programs of targeted strategic foreign language 
     proficiency training for such future leaders that--
       (A) are designed to significantly enhance critical cyber 
     operational capabilities; and
       (B) are tailored to current and anticipated readiness 
     requirements.
       (3) Programs related to mathematical foundations of 
     cryptography and courses in cryptographic theory and practice 
     designed to complement and reinforce cyber education along 
     with the strategic language programs critical to cyber 
     operations.
       (4) Programs designed to develop early interest and cyber 
     talent through summer programs for elementary school and 
     secondary school students and dual enrollment opportunities 
     for cyber, strategic language, and cryptography related 
     courses.
       (5) Training and education programs to expand the pool of 
     qualified cyber instructors necessary to support cyber 
     education in regional school systems.
       (c) Partnerships With Department of Defense and the Armed 
     Forces.--Any ROTC Cyber Institute established under the 
     program authorized by subsection (a) may enter into a 
     partnership with one or more components of the Armed Forces, 
     active or reserve, or any agency of the Department of Defense 
     to facilitate the development of critical cyber skills for 
     students who may pursue a military career.
       (d) Partnerships With Other Schools.--Any ROTC Cyber 
     Institute established under the program authorized by 
     subsection (a) may enter into a partnership with one or more 
     local educational agencies to facilitate the development of 
     critical cyber skills under the program among students 
     attending the elementary schools and secondary schools of 
     such agencies who may pursue a military career.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) ESEA terms.--The terms ``elementary school'', 
     ``secondary school'', and ``local educational agency'' have 
     the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the 
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7801).
       (2) Senior military colleges.--The term ``senior military 
     colleges'' means the senior military colleges described in 
     section 2111a(f) of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 543. LIEUTENANT HENRY OSSIAN FLIPPER LEADERSHIP 
                   SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out a 
     program to be known as the ``Lieutenant Henry Ossian Flipper 
     Leadership Scholarship Program'' under which the Secretary 
     may provide financial assistance, in accordance with this 
     section, to a person--
       (1) who is pursuing a recognized postsecondary credential 
     at a minority-serving institution; and
       (2) who enters into an agreement with the Secretary as 
     described in subsection (b).
       (b) Service Agreement for Scholarship Recipients.--
       (1) In general.--To receive financial assistance under this 
     section--
       (A) a member of the Army shall enter into an agreement to 
     serve on active duty in the Army for the period of obligated 
     service determined under paragraph (2); and
       (B) a person who is not a member of the Army shall enter 
     into an agreement to enlist or accept a commission in the 
     Army and to serve on active duty in Army for the period of 
     obligated service determined under paragraph (2).
       (2) Period of obligated service.--The period of obligated 
     service for a recipient of financial assistance under this 
     section shall be the period determined by the Secretary of 
     Army as being appropriate to obtain adequate service in 
     exchange for the financial assistance. The period of service 
     required of a recipient shall be not less than the period 
     equal to three-fourths of the total period of pursuit of a 
     credential for which the Secretary agrees to provide the 
     recipient with financial assistance under this section. The 
     period of obligated service is in addition to any other 
     period for which the recipient is obligated to serve on 
     active duty.
       (3) Terms of agreement.--An agreement entered into under 
     this section by a person pursuing a recognized postsecondary 
     credential shall include the following terms:
       (A) Service start date.--The period of obligated service 
     will begin on a date after the award of the credential, as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Army.
       (B) Academic progress.--The person will maintain 
     satisfactory academic progress, as determined by the 
     Secretary, and that failure to maintain such progress 
     constitutes grounds for termination of the financial 
     assistance for the person under this section.
       (C) Other terms.--Any other terms and conditions that the 
     Secretary determines to be appropriate for carrying out this 
     section.
       (c) Amount of Assistance.--The amount of the financial 
     assistance provided for a person under this section shall be 
     the amount determined by the Secretary of the Army as being 
     necessary to pay the person's cost of attendance at the 
     minority-serving institution.
       (d) Use of Assistance for Support of Internships.--The 
     financial assistance for a person under this section may also 
     be provided to support internship activities of the person at 
     the Department of Defense in periods between the academic 
     years leading to the credential for which assistance is 
     provided the person under this section.
       (e) Repayment for Period of Unserved Obligated Service.--A 
     member of the Army who does not complete the period of active 
     duty specified in the service agreement under subsection (b) 
     shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 
     303a(e) of title 37.
       (f) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report that 
     includes--
       (1) an assessment of the progress of the Secretary in 
     carrying out the scholarship program under this section;
       (2) the number of scholarships that the Secretary intends 
     to award in the academic year beginning after the date of the 
     submission of the report; and
       (3) a description of the Secretary's efforts to promote the 
     scholarship program at minority-serving institutions.
       (g) Definitions.--In this Act:
       (1) Cost of attendance.--The term ``cost of attendance'' 
     has the meaning given the term in section 472 of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll).
       (2) Minority-serving institution.--The term ``minority-
     serving institution'' means an institution of higher 
     education described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)).
       (3) Recognized postsecondary credential.--The term 
     ``recognized postsecondary credential'' has the meaning given 
     the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).

Subtitle E--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

     SEC. 551. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL 
                   EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

       (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of 
     Military Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 301 and 
     available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
     activities as specified in the funding table in division D, 
     $30,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of 
     providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
     subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 
     20 U.S.C. 7703b).
       (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713(9)).

     SEC. 552. EDUCATION FOR DEPENDENTS OF CERTAIN RETIRED MEMBERS 
                   OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       Section 2164(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by inserting ``, dependents of retirees,'' after 
     ``dependents of members of the armed forces''; and
       (B) by inserting ``and the dependents of such retirees'' 
     after ``such members of the armed forces''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `retiree' 
     means a member or former member of the armed forces, not 
     including a member or former member of the Coast Guard, who 
     is entitled to retired or retainer pay under this title, or 
     who, but for age, would be eligible for retired or retainer 
     pay under chapter 1223 of this title.''.

     SEC. 553. CODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT FAMILY SUPPORT 
                   PROGRAMS FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS OF 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED TO SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS FORCES.

       (a) Codification of Existing Authority.--Chapter 88 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     section 1788 a new section 1788a consisting of--
       (1) a heading as follows:

     ``Sec. 1788a. Family support programs: immediate family 
       members of members of special operations forces''; and

       (2) a text consisting of subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) 
     of section 554 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 1788 note), 
     redesignated as subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d), 
     respectively.
       (b) Funding.--Subsection (c) of section 1788a of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added and redesignated by subsection 
     (a) of this section, is amended by striking ``specified'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the subsection and

[[Page H5563]]

     inserting ``, from funds available for Major Force Program 
     11, to carry out family support programs under this 
     section.''.
       (c) Elimination of Pilot Program References and Other 
     Conforming Amendments.--Section 1788a of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is 
     further amended--
       (1) by striking ``Armed Forces'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``armed forces'';
       (2) by striking ``pilot'' each place it appears;
       (3) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Pilot''; and
       (B) by striking ``up to three'' and all that follows 
     through ``providing'' and inserting ``programs to provide''; 
     and
       (4) in subsection (d), as redesignated by subsection (a) of 
     this section--
       (A) in paragraph (2). by striking ``title 10, United States 
     Code'' and inserting ``this title''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``such title'' and 
     inserting ``this title''.
       (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter I of chapter 88 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating 
     to section 1788 the following new item:

``1788a. Family support programs: immediate family members of members 
              of special operations forces.''.
       (e) Conforming Repeal.--Section 554 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
     U.S.C. 1788 note) is repealed.

     SEC. 554. REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION 
                   COSTS OF A SPOUSE OF A MEMBER OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES ARISING FROM RELOCATION TO ANOTHER 
                   STATE.

       (a) Reimbursement Authorized.--Section 476 of title 37, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(p)(1) The Secretary concerned may reimburse a member of 
     the armed forces for qualified relicensing costs of the 
     spouse of the member when--
       ``(A) the member is reassigned, either as a permanent 
     change of station or permanent change of assignment, from a 
     duty station in one State to a duty station in another State; 
     and
       ``(B) the movement of the member's dependents is authorized 
     at the expense of the United States under this section as 
     part of the reassignment.
       ``(2) Reimbursement provided to a member under this 
     subsection may not exceed $500 in connection with each 
     reassignment described in paragraph (1).
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `qualified relicensing 
     costs' means costs, including exam and registration fees, 
     that--
       ``(A) are imposed by the State of the new duty station to 
     secure a license or certification to engage in the same 
     profession that the spouse of the member engaged in while in 
     the State of the original duty station; and
       ``(B) are paid or incurred by the member or spouse to 
     secure the license or certification from the State of the new 
     duty station after the date on which the orders directing the 
     reassignment described in paragraph (1) are issued.''.
       (b) Development of Recommendations to Expedite License 
     Portability for Military Spouses.--
       (1) Consultation with states.--The Secretary of Defense, 
     and the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the 
     Coast Guard, shall consult with States--
       (A) to identify barriers to the portability between States 
     of a license, certification, or other grant of permission 
     held by the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces to engage 
     in an occupation when the spouse moves between States as part 
     of a permanent change of station or permanent change of 
     assignment of the member; and
       (B) to develop recommendations for the Federal Government 
     and the States, together or separately, to expedite the 
     portability of such licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission for military spouses.
       (2) Specific considerations.--In conducting the 
     consultation and preparing the recommendations under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall consider the feasibility 
     of--
       (A) States accepting licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission described in paragraph (1) issued by 
     another State and in good standing in that State;
       (B) the issuance of a temporary license pending completion 
     of State-specific requirements; and
       (C) the establishment of an expedited review process for 
     military spouses.
       (3) Report required.--Not later than March 15, 2018, the 
     Secretaries shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees and the States a report containing the 
     recommendations developed under this subsection.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate, and 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House 
     of Representatives.

                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

     SEC. 561. REPLACEMENT OF MILITARY DECORATIONS AT THE REQUEST 
                   OF RELATIVES OF DECEASED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Subsection (a) of section 1135 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(a) Replacement.--(1) The Secretary concerned shall 
     replace, on a one-time basis, a military decoration upon the 
     request of--
       ``(A) the recipient of the military decoration;
       ``(B) the immediate next of kin of a deceased recipient of 
     a military decoration; or
       ``(C) a relative of a deceased recipient of a military 
     decoration who is related within the second or third degree 
     of consanguinity to the deceased recipient.
       ``(2) The replacement of a military decoration under 
     subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) shall be provided 
     without charge. The replacement of a military decoration 
     under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph shall be provided at 
     no cost to the Department of Defense.
       ``(3) The authority provided by this subsection is in 
     addition to any other authority available to the Secretary 
     concerned to replace a military decoration.''.

     SEC. 562. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE SERVICE MEDAL.

       (a) Establishment.--Chapter 57 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 1136. Congressional Defense Service Medal

       ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall award, 
     at the behest of and on behalf of Congress, a Congressional 
     Defense Service Medal to a group or other entity to 
     recognize, subject to subsection (c)(1), the exemplary 
     service or significant achievement of the group or other 
     entity in furtherance of the defense and national security of 
     the United States.
       ``(b) Design and Content.--A Congressional Defense Service 
     Medal shall be a gold medal of appropriate design, with 
     suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions. The Secretary of 
     Defense may design a Congressional Defense Service Medal to 
     recognize the specific group or other entity and the service 
     or achievement for which the Congressional Defense Service 
     Medal is being awarded.
       ``(c) Eligibility Limitations.--
       ``(1) Nature of service or achievement.--For a group or 
     other entity to be eligible for the award of a Congressional 
     Defense Service Medal, the service or achievement to be 
     recognized must--
       ``(A) be in the field of endeavor of the group or other 
     entity; and
       ``(B) represent either a lengthy period of continuous 
     superior service or achievement or a single act of service or 
     achievement so significant that the group or other entity is 
     recognized and acclaimed by others in the same field of 
     endeavor, as evidenced by the recipient having received the 
     highest honors in the field.
       ``(2) Effect of other federal recognition.--A group or 
     other entity may not receive a Congressional Defense Service 
     Medal in recognition of service or achievement for which the 
     group or other entity received a medal from the United States 
     previously for the same or substantially the same service or 
     achievement.
       ``(3) Prohibition on award to an individual.--A 
     Congressional Defense Service Medal may not be awarded to a 
     single individual.
       ``(d) Time Limitations.--A Congressional Defense Service 
     Medal may not be awarded to a group or entity--
       ``(1) until at least five years after the conclusion of the 
     exemplary service or significant achievement for which the 
     Congressional Defense Service Medal is being awarded; and
       ``(2) unless the award is made within 25 years after the 
     conclusion of the exemplary service or significant 
     achievement for which the Congressional Defense Service Medal 
     is being awarded.
       ``(e) Duplicate Medals.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     arrange for the striking and sale of duplicates in bronze of 
     a Congressional Defense Service Medal, at a price sufficient 
     to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, 
     use of machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the 
     gold Congressional Defense Service Medal.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 57 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``1136. Congressional Defense Service Medal.''.

     SEC. 563. LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY TO REVOKE CERTAIN MILITARY 
                   DECORATIONS AWARDED TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       (a) Army.--
       (1) Limitations.--Chapter 357 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 3757. Military decorations: limitations on revocation

       ``(a) Limitations.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
     the President or the Secretary of the Army may not authorize 
     the revocation of a military decoration after the actual 
     award of the military decoration to a member of the armed 
     forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       ``(b) Exceptions.--(1) Subsection (a) does not apply to the 
     revocation of a military decoration if the revocation is 
     ordered on account of --
       ``(A) the acquisition of new or additional information that 
     calls into question the service for which the member was 
     awarded the military decoration; or
       ``(B) the conviction of the member for a serious violent 
     felony.
       ``(2) In applying the exception described in paragraph 
     (1)(B), the President and the Secretary of the Army shall 
     take into account, as an extenuating factor, whether the 
     member has been diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) 
     or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `military decoration' means the 
     distinguished-service cross, distinguished-service medal, 
     silver star, distinguished flying cross, or Soldier's Medal. 
     The term does not include the medal of honor.
       ``(2) The term `serious violent felony' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 3559(c)(2)(F) of title 18.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:


[[Page H5564]]


``3757. Military decorations: limitations on revocation.''.
       (b) Navy and Marine Corps.--
       (1) Limitations.--Chapter 567 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 6259. Military decorations: limitations on revocation

       ``(a) Limitations.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
     the President or the Secretary of the Navy may not authorize 
     the revocation of a military decoration after the actual 
     award of the military decoration to a member of the armed 
     forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       ``(b) Exceptions.--(1) Subsection (a) does not apply to the 
     revocation of a military decoration if the revocation is 
     ordered on account of --
       ``(A) the acquisition of new or additional information that 
     calls into question the service for which the member was 
     awarded the military decoration; or
       ``(B) the conviction of the member for a serious violent 
     felony.
       ``(2) In applying the exception described in paragraph 
     (1)(B), the President and the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     take into account, as an extenuating factor, whether the 
     member has been diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) 
     or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `military decoration' means the Navy cross, 
     distinguished-service medal, silver star medal, distinguished 
     flying cross, or Navy and Marine Corps Medal. The term does 
     not include the medal of honor.
       ``(2) The term `serious violent felony' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 3559(c)(2)(F) of title 18.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``6259. Military decorations: limitations on revocation.''.
       (c) Air Force.--
       (1) Limitations.--Chapter 857 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 8757. Military decorations: limitations on revocation

       ``(a) Limitations.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
     the President or the Secretary of the Air Force may not 
     authorize the revocation of a military decoration after the 
     actual award of the military decoration to a member of the 
     armed forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       ``(b) Exceptions.--(1) Subsection (a) does not apply to the 
     revocation of a military decoration if the revocation is 
     ordered on account of --
       ``(A) the acquisition of new or additional information that 
     calls into question the service for which the member was 
     awarded the military decoration; or
       ``(B) the conviction of the member for a serious violent 
     felony.
       ``(2) In applying the exception described in paragraph 
     (1)(B), the President and the Secretary of the Air Force 
     shall take into account, as an extenuating factor, whether 
     the member has been diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury 
     (TBI) or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `military decoration' means the Air Force 
     cross, distinguished-service medal, silver star, 
     distinguished flying cross, or Airman's Medal. The term does 
     not include the medal of honor.
       ``(2) The term `serious violent felony' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 3559(c)(2)(F) of title 18.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``8757. Military decorations: limitations on revocation.''.

          Subtitle G--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

     SEC. 571. EXPANSION OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF 
                   TECHNOLOGY ENROLLMENT AUTHORITY TO INCLUDE 
                   CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE HOMELAND SECURITY 
                   INDUSTRY.

       (a) Definition.--Subsection (b) of section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Covered Private Sector Employee Defined.--(1) In this 
     section, the term `covered private sector employee' means--
       ``(A) an individual employed by a private firm that is 
     engaged in providing to the Department of Defense significant 
     and substantial defense-related systems, products, or 
     services; or
       ``(B) an individual employed by a private firm in one of 
     the critical infrastructure sectors identified in 
     Presidential Policy Directive 21 (Critical Infrastructure 
     Security and Resilience).
       ``(2) A covered private sector employee admitted for 
     instruction at the United States Air Force Institute of 
     Technology remains eligible for such instruction only so long 
     as the person remains employed by the same firm.''.
       (b) Use of Defined Term.--Section 9314a of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking ``defense industry employees described in 
     subsection (b)'' and inserting ``a covered private sector 
     employee''; and
       (ii) by striking ``Any such defense industry employee'' and 
     inserting ``A covered private sector employee''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``covered private sector 
     employees''; and
       (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``defense industry 
     employee'' both places it appears and inserting ``covered 
     private sector employee'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by striking ``Defense industry employees'' and 
     inserting ``A covered private sector employee''; and
       (B) by striking ``defense industry employees'' and 
     inserting ``covered private sector employees'';
       (3) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``a covered private sector 
     employee''; and
       (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``defense industry 
     employees'' and inserting ``covered private sector 
     employees''.
       (c) Other Conforming Amendments.--Section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``a defense focused'' 
     and inserting ``a defense-focused or homeland security-
     focused''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or homeland security'' 
     after ``and defense''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following: ``or the Department of Homeland Security, 
     as applicable''.
       (d) Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 9314a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 9314a. United States Air Force Institute of 
       Technology: admission of certain private sector 
       civilians''.

       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 901 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 9314a and 
     inserting the following new item:

``9314a. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: admission of 
              certain private sector civilians.''.

     SEC. 572. SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE.

       Section 1967(f)(4) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the second sentence.

     SEC. 573. VOTER REGISTRATION.

       Section 705 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 
     U.S.C. 4025(a)), is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(c) Registration.--
       ``(1) In general.--For the purposes of voting in any 
     election for Federal office (as defined in section 301 of the 
     Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101)) or 
     State or local office, a servicemember who registers to vote 
     in a State in which the servicemember is present in 
     compliance with military orders for a permanent change of 
     station shall not, solely by reason of that registration--
       ``(A) be deemed to have acquired a residence or domicile in 
     that State;
       ``(B) be deemed to have become a resident in or a resident 
     of that State; or
       ``(C) be deemed to have lost a residence or domicile in any 
     other State, without regard to whether or not the person 
     intends to return to that State.
       ``(2) Notification by the servicemember.--A servicemember 
     who elects to register to vote in the State in which the 
     servicemember is present in compliance with military orders 
     for a permanent change of station shall notify the Service 
     Voting Action Officer of the military department concerned 
     not later than 10 days after such registration.
       ``(3) Notification by the service voting action officer.--A 
     Service Voting Action Officer who receives a notification 
     under paragraph (2) shall notify the chief State election 
     official of the State in which the servicemember resides or 
     is domiciled of such registration not later than 10 days 
     after such registration.''.

     SEC. 574. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING SECTION 504 OF TITLE 
                   10, UNITED STATES CODE, ON EXISTING AUTHORITY 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO ENLIST 
                   INDIVIDUALS, NOT OTHERWISE ELIGIBLE FOR 
                   ENLISTMENT, WHOSE ENLISTMENT IS VITAL TO THE 
                   NATIONAL INTEREST.

       It is the sense of Congress that a statute currently 
     exists, specifically paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of 
     section 504 of title 10, United States Code, which states 
     that ``the Secretary concerned may authorize the enlistment 
     of a person not described in paragraph (1) [of that 
     subsection] if the Secretary determines that such enlistment 
     is vital to the national interest''.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

     SEC. 601. ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF BASIC MONTHLY PAY.

       The adjustment in the rates of monthly basic pay required 
     by subsection (a) of section 1009 of title 37, United States 
     Code, to be made on January 1, 2018, shall take effect, 
     notwithstanding any determination made by the President under 
     subsection (e) of such section with respect to an alternative 
     pay adjustment to be made on such date.

     SEC. 602. LIMITATION ON BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING 
                   MODIFICATION AUTHORITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
                   UNIFORMED SERVICES RESIDING IN MILITARY HOUSING 
                   PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE HOUSING.

       (a) In General.--Paragraph (3) of section 403(b) of title 
     37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(C) The Secretary of Defense may not reduce the rate of 
     basic allowance for housing in effect on December 31, 2017, 
     for a member of a uniformed service who resides in a housing 
     unit acquired or constructed under the alternative authority 
     of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10 (known as the 
     Military Housing Privatization Initiative) until January 1, 
     2019.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of such 
     paragraph is amended in clause (iv) by striking ``Four'' and 
     inserting ``Subject to subparagraph (C), four''.

[[Page H5565]]

       (c) GAO Review.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a review of the following:
       (1) An analysis of the impact of reductions in the rate of 
     the basic allowance for housing under section 403 of title 
     37, United States Code, on the long-term viability of the 
     Military Housing Privatization Initiative (MHPI).
       (2) An analysis of projected revenue for the MHPI, 
     considering projected reductions in such basic allowance for 
     housing, which compares projected revenue under the 
     assumption that members of the armed forces will make out-of-
     pocket payments in addition to rent and under the assumption 
     that members will not make such out-of-pocket payments.
       (3) An analysis of the extent to which the Department of 
     Defense has relied and continues to rely on the assumption 
     that members of the armed forces who live in housing units 
     acquired or constructed under the MHPI will make out-of-
     pocket payments in addition to basic rent in order to offset 
     reductions in such basic housing allowance.
       (4) An analysis of the future military construction costs 
     that will be necessary to offset reduced reinvestment account 
     distributions as a result of reductions in such basic housing 
     allowance, consistent with the requirement included in 
     project ground leases under the MHPI that all assets will be 
     in like-new condition at the end of the lease.
       (5) The impact on maintenance of housing units acquired or 
     constructed under the MHPI because of the reductions in 
     revenue for the MHPI that will result from reductions in such 
     basic housing allowance.
       (6) The impacts of the costs described in paragraph (4) and 
     the reduction in revenue described in paragraph (5) on 
     occupancy and revenue generated by occupancy under the MHPI, 
     and the impact of changes in occupancy and associated revenue 
     on the costs described in paragraph (4) and the reduction in 
     revenue described in paragraph (5).
       (7) The process for establishing the criteria for and the 
     execution of market surveys used to establish the rates of 
     such basic housing allowance.

     SEC. 603. HOUSING TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
                   FORCES, AND THEIR SPOUSES AND OTHER DEPENDENTS, 
                   UNDERGOING A PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION WITHIN 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) Housing Treatment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 7 of title 37, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after section 403 the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 403a. Housing treatment for certain members of the 
       Armed Forces, and their spouses and other dependents, 
       undergoing a permanent change of station within the United 
       States

       ``(a) Housing Treatment for Certain Members Who Have a 
     Spouse or Other Dependents.--
       ``(1) Housing treatment regulations.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall prescribe regulations that permit a member of 
     the armed forces described in paragraph (2) who is undergoing 
     a permanent change of station within the United States to 
     request the housing treatment described in subsection (b) 
     during the covered relocation period of the member.
       ``(2) Eligible members.--A member described in this 
     paragraph is any member who--
       ``(A) has a spouse who is gainfully employed or enrolled in 
     a degree, certificate or license granting program at the 
     beginning of the covered relocation period;
       ``(B) has one or more dependents attending an elementary or 
     secondary school at the beginning of the covered relocation 
     period;
       ``(C) has one or more dependents enrolled in the 
     Exceptional Family Member Program; or
       ``(D) is caring for an immediate family member with a 
     chronic or long-term illness at the beginning of the covered 
     relocation period.
       ``(b) Housing Treatment.--
       ``(1) Continuation of housing for the spouse and other 
     dependents.--If a spouse or other dependent of a member whose 
     request under subsection (a) is approved resides in 
     Government-owned or Government-leased housing at the 
     beginning of the covered relocation period, the spouse or 
     other dependent may continue to reside in such housing during 
     a period determined in accordance with the regulations 
     prescribed pursuant to this section.
       ``(2) Early housing eligibility.--If a spouse or other 
     dependent of a member whose request under subsection (a) is 
     approved is eligible to reside in Government-owned or 
     Government-leased housing following the member's permanent 
     change of station within the United States, the spouse or 
     other dependent may commence residing in such housing at any 
     time during the covered relocation period.
       ``(3) Temporary use of government-owned or government-
     leased housing intended for members without a spouse or 
     dependent.--If a spouse or other dependent of a member 
     relocates at a time different from the member in accordance 
     with a request approved under subsection (a), the member may 
     be assigned to Government-owned or Government-leased housing 
     intended for the permanent housing of members without a 
     spouse or dependent until the member's detachment date or the 
     spouse or other dependent's arrival date, but only if such 
     Government-owned or Government-leased housing is available 
     without displacing a member without a spouse or dependent at 
     such housing.
       ``(4) Equitable basic allowance for housing.--If a spouse 
     or other dependent of a member relocates at a time different 
     from the member in accordance with a request approved under 
     subsection (a), the amount of basic allowance for housing 
     payable may be based on whichever of the following areas the 
     Secretary concerned determines to be the most equitable:
       ``(A) The area of the duty station to which the member is 
     reassigned.
       ``(B) The area in which the spouse or other dependent 
     resides, but only if the spouse or other dependent resides in 
     that area when the member departs for the duty station to 
     which the member is reassigned, and only for the period 
     during which the spouse or other dependent resides in that 
     area.
       ``(C) The area of the former duty station of the member, 
     but only if that area is different from the area in which the 
     spouse or other dependent resides.
       ``(c) Rule of Construction Related to Certain Basic 
     Allowance for Housing Payments.--Nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to limit the payment or the amount of 
     basic allowance for housing payable under section 
     403(d)(3)(A) of this title to a member whose request under 
     subsection (a) is approved.
       ``(d) Housing Treatment Education.--The regulations 
     prescribed pursuant to this section shall ensure the 
     relocation assistance programs under section 1056 of title 10 
     include, as part of the assistance normally provided under 
     such section, education about the housing treatment available 
     under this section.
       ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Covered relocation period.--(A) Subject to 
     subparagraph (B), the term `covered relocation period', when 
     used with respect to a permanent change of station of a 
     member of the armed forces, means the period that--
       ``(i) begins 180 days before the date of the permanent 
     change of station; and
       ``(ii) ends 180 days after the date of the permanent change 
     of station.
       ``(B) The regulations prescribed pursuant to this section 
     may provide for a lengthening of the covered relocation 
     period of a member for purposes of this section.
       ``(2) Dependent.--The term `dependent' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 401 of this title.
       ``(3) Permanent change of station.--The term `permanent 
     change of station' means a permanent change of station 
     described in section 452(b)(2) of this title.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 7 such title is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 403 the following new 
     item:

``403a. Housing treatment for certain members of the armed forces, and 
              their spouses and other dependents, undergoing a 
              permanent change of station within the United States.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply with respect to permanent changes of station 
     of members of the Armed Forces that occur on or after October 
     1 of the fiscal year that begins after such date of 
     enactment.

     SEC. 604. PER DIEM ALLOWANCE POLICIES.

       (a) Policy and Regulations.--
       (1) Existing policy and regulations.--The Secretary of each 
     military department may not implement the policy in the 
     memorandum dated October 1, 2014, titled ``UTD/CTS for MAP 
     118-13/CAP 118-13 - Flat Rate Per Diem for Long Term TDY'', 
     regarding per diem allowances, or any regulations prescribed 
     pursuant to such memorandum, on or after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (2) Future policy and regulations.--(A) The Secretary of 
     each military department concerned may not implement a new 
     policy regarding per diem allowances under section 474 of 
     title 37, United States Code, until after the Secretary of 
     Defense issues the report under subsection (b).
       (B) The Secretary of the military department concerned 
     shall notify the appropriate congressional committees not 
     less than 30 days before implementing a new policy regarding 
     per diem allowances under section 474 of title 37, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding 
     options to reduce travel costs incurred by the Department of 
     Defense, including the adoption of practices used by private 
     entities.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, 
     the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

     SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve 
     reenlistment bonus.
       (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve 
     affiliation or enlistment bonus.
       (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
     members assigned to certain high-priority units.
       (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve 
     enlistment bonus for persons without prior service.
       (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
     and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
       (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve 
     enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior 
     service.

[[Page H5566]]

       (7) Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel 
     expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal 
     commuting distance.
       (8) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments 
     for reserve component members experiencing extended and 
     frequent mobilization for active duty service.

     SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.

       (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 
     10, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
     candidate accession program.
       (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
     loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
     Selected Reserve.
       (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 
     37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
     bonuses for psychologists.
       (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
     registered nurses.
       (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay 
     for nurse anesthetists.
       (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
     Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
     specialties.
       (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
     dental officers.
       (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for 
     pharmacy officers.
       (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for 
     medical officers in critically short wartime specialties.
       (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
     specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.

     SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS 
                   AUTHORITIES FOR NUCLEAR OFFICERS.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
     qualified officers extending period of active service.
       (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
     bonus.
       (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
     incentive bonus.

     SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 
                   37 CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND 
                   BONUS AUTHORITIES.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
     enlisted members.
       (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
     officers.
       (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive 
     pay authorities for nuclear officers.
       (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
     pay and bonus authorities for officers.
       (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
     pay authorities for officers in health professions.
       (6) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
     cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve 
     Officers' Training Corps.
       (7) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
       (8) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
     duty pay.
       (9) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
     proficiency bonus.
       (10) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
     members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
     high priority units.

     SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO 
                   PAYMENT OF OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL 
                   PAYS.

       The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018'':
       (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
     bonus.
       (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
       (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for 
     active members.
       (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
       (5) Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members 
     of precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language 
     proficiency.
       (6) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
     officers in critical skills.
       (7) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for 
     conversion to military occupational specialty to ease 
     personnel shortage.
       (8) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for 
     transfer between Armed Forces.
       (9) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
     candidates.

     SEC. 616. REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION 
                   COSTS OF A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES ARISING 
                   FROM SEPARATION FROM THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) Reimbursement Authorized.--Section 1143 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(f) Reimbursement for State Licensure and Certification 
     Costs.--(1) The Secretary concerned may reimburse a member of 
     the armed forces who separates from the armed forces for 
     qualified relicensing costs of the member.
       ``(2) Reimbursement provided to a member under this 
     subsection may not exceed $500.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `qualified relicensing 
     costs' means costs, including exam and registration fees, 
     that--
       ``(A) are imposed by the State in which the member resides 
     after separation from the armed forces to secure a license or 
     certification to engage in a profession; and
       ``(B) are paid or incurred by the member to secure the 
     license or certification from the State in which the member 
     resides after separation from the armed forces.''.
       (b) Development of Recommendations to Expedite License 
     Portability for Members of the Armed Forces.--
       (1) Consultation with states.--The Secretary of Defense, 
     and the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the 
     Coast Guard, shall consult with States--
       (A) to identify barriers to the portability between States 
     of a license, certification, or other grant of permission 
     held by a member of the Armed Forces to engage in an 
     occupation when the member separates from the Armed Forces; 
     and
       (B) to develop recommendations for the Federal Government 
     and the States, together or separately, to expedite the 
     portability of such licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission for separated members of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (2) Specific considerations.--In conducting the 
     consultation and preparing the recommendations under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall consider the feasibility 
     of--
       (A) States accepting licenses, certifications, and other 
     grants of permission described in paragraph (1) issued by 
     another State and in good standing in that State;
       (B) the issuance of a temporary license pending completion 
     of State-specific requirements; and
       (C) the establishment of an expedited review process for 
     separated members of the Armed Forces.
       (3) Report required.--Not later than March 15, 2018, the 
     Secretaries shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees and the States a report containing the 
     recommendations developed under this subsection.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate, and 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House 
     of Representatives.

     SEC. 617. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF AVIATION BONUS FOR 
                   12-MONTH PERIOD OF OBLIGATED SERVICE.

       Section 334(c)(1)(B) of title 37, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``$35,000'' and inserting ``$50,000''.

     SEC. 618. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO 2008 
                   CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN SPECIAL PAY 
                   AUTHORITIES.

       (a) Repayment Provisions.--
       (1) Title 10.--Section 510(i), subsections (a)(3) and (c) 
     of section 2005, paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2007(e), 
     section 2105, section 2123(e)(1)(C), section 2128(c), section 
     2130a(d), section 2171(g), section 2173(g)(2), paragraphs (1) 
     and (2) of section 2200a(e), section 4348(f), section 
     6959(f), section 9348(f), subsections (a)(2) and (b) of 
     section 16135, section 16203(a)(1)(B), section 16301(h), 
     section 16303(d), and the matter preceding subparagraph (A) 
     of paragraph (1) and the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of 
     paragraph (2) of section 16401(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code, are each amended by inserting ``or 373'' before ``of 
     title 37''.
       (2) Title 14.--Section 182(g) of title 14, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting ``or 373'' before ``of title 
     37''.
       (b) Officers Appointed Pursuant to an Agreement Under 
     Section 329 of Title 37.--Section 641 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (6).
       (c) Reenlistment Leave.--The matter preceding paragraph (1) 
     of section 703(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting ``or paragraph (1) or (3) of section 351(a)'' 
     after ``section 310(a)(2)''.
       (d) Rest and Recuperation Absence: Qualified Members 
     Extending Duty at a Designated Location Overseas.--The matter 
     following paragraph (4) of section 705(a) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 314''.
       (e) Rest and Recuperation Absence: Certain Members 
     Undergoing Extended Deployment to a Combat Zone.--Section 
     705a(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting or ``352(a)'' after ``section 305''.
       (f) Military Pay and Allowances Continuance While in a 
     Missing Status.--Section 552(a)(2) of title 37, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting ``or paragraph (2) of section 
     351(a)'' after ``section 301''.
       (g) Military Pay and Allowances.--Section 907(d) of title 
     37, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or 351'' after 
     ``section 301'';
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 301c'';
       (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or 353(a)'' after 
     ``section 304'';
       (D) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305'';
       (E) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305a'';
       (F) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 305b'';
       (G) in subparagraph (G), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 307a'';
       (H) in subparagraph (I), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 314'';
       (I) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``316'' and inserting 
     ``353(b)''; and
       (J) in subparagraph (K), by striking ``323'' and inserting 
     ``355''; and

[[Page H5567]]

       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or 352'' after 
     ``section 307'';
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``308'' and inserting 
     ``331'';
       (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``309'' and inserting 
     ``331''; and
       (D) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``or 353'' after 
     ``section 320''.
       (h) Pay and Allowances.--Section 208(a)(2) of the Public 
     Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 210(a)(2)) is amended by 
     inserting ``or 373'' after ``303a(b)''.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

     SEC. 621. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE 
                   SPECIAL SURVIVOR INDEMNITY ALLOWANCE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Dependency and indemnity compensation administered by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs provides financial support 
     to the surviving spouses, children, and dependent parents of 
     deceased veterans.
       (2) The survivor benefit plan administered by the 
     Department of Defense provides an inflation-adjusted annuity 
     to the eligible survivors of certain deceased military 
     personnel.
       (3) The amount of compensation a surviving spouse may 
     receive under the survivor benefit plan is offset on a 
     dollar-for-dollar basis by any amount of dependency and 
     indemnity compensation the surviving spouse receives.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the special survivor indemnity allowance was created to 
     assist surviving spouses and begin to repay the offset 
     described in subsection (a)(3); and
       (2) such offset should be repealed as soon as possible.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

     SEC. 631. LAND CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, ARMY AND AIR FORCE 
                   EXCHANGE SERVICE PROPERTY, DALLAS, TEXAS.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Army and Air Force Exchange 
     Service may convey, by sale, exchange, or a combination 
     thereof, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
     in and to a parcel of real property, including improvements 
     thereon, that is located at 8901 Autobahn Drive in Dallas, 
     Texas, and was purchased using nonappropriated funds of the 
     Army and Air Force Exchange Service.
       (b) Consideration.--
       (1) In general.--Consideration for the real property 
     conveyed under subsection (a) shall be at least equal to the 
     fair market value of the property, as determined by the Army 
     and Air Force Exchange Service.
       (2) Treatment of cash consideration.--Any cash 
     consideration received from the conveyance of the property 
     under subsection (a) may be retained by the Army and Air 
     Force Exchange Service since the property was acquired using 
     nonappropriated funds.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. The recipient of 
     the property shall be required to cover the cost of the 
     survey.
       (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Army and Air 
     Force Exchange Service may require such additional terms and 
     conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection 
     (a) as the Army and Air Force Exchange Service considers 
     appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

     SEC. 632. ADVISORY BOARDS REGARDING MILITARY COMMISSARIES AND 
                   EXCHANGES.

       The Secretary of Defense shall direct each commanding 
     officer of a military base on which there is a military 
     commissary or exchange to establish an advisory board, 
     comprised of representatives of military or veterans service 
     organizations, to advise the commanding officer regarding the 
     interests of patrons and beneficiaries of military 
     commissaries and exchanges.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

     SEC. 701. PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS FOR MEMBERS OF A RESERVE 
                   COMPONENT WHO ARE SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED 
                   FORCES.

       Section 1145 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsection (d):
       ``(d) Physical Examinations for Certain Members of a 
     Reserve Component.--(1) The Secretary concerned shall provide 
     a physical examination pursuant to subsection (a)(5) to each 
     member of a reserve component who--
       ``(A) during the two-year period before the date on which 
     the member is scheduled to be separated from the armed force 
     served on active duty in support of a contingency operation 
     for a period of more than 30 days;
       ``(B) will not otherwise receive such an examination under 
     such subsection; and
       ``(C) elects to receive such a physical examination.
       ``(2) The Secretary concerned shall--
       ``(A) provide the physical examination under paragraph (1) 
     to a member during the 90-day period before the date on which 
     the member is scheduled to be separated from the armed 
     forces; and
       ``(B) issue orders to such a member to receive such 
     physical examination.
       ``(3) A member may not be entitled to health care benefits 
     pursuant to subsection (a), (b), or (c) solely by reason of 
     being provided a physical examination under paragraph (1).
       ``(4) In providing to a member a physical examination under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall provide to the 
     member a record of the physical examination.''.

     SEC. 702. MENTAL HEALTH EXAMINATIONS BEFORE MEMBERS SEPARATE 
                   FROM THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Section 1145(a)(5)(A) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting ``and a mental health 
     examination conducted pursuant to section 1074n of this 
     title'' after ``a physical examination''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1074n(a) of such title 
     is amended by inserting ``(and before separation from active 
     duty pursuant to section 1145(a)(5)(A) of this title)'' after 
     ``each calendar year''.

     SEC. 703. PROVISION OF HYPERBARIC OXYGEN THERAPY FOR CERTAIN 
                   MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) HBOT Treatment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1074n the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 1074o. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 
       certain members

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may furnish hyperbaric 
     oxygen therapy available at a military medical treatment 
     facility to a covered member if such therapy is prescribed by 
     a physician to treat post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury.
       ``(b) Covered Member Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `covered member' means a member of the armed forces who is--
       ``(1) serving on active duty; and
       ``(2) diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder or 
     traumatic brain injury.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 1074n the following new item:

``1074o. Provision of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for certain members.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

     SEC. 711. CLARIFICATION OF ROLES OF COMMANDERS OF MILITARY 
                   MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES AND SURGEONS 
                   GENERAL.

       (a) Role of Commanders.--Section 1073c(a)(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
     subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting before subparagraph (B) the following new 
     subparagraph (A):
       ``(A) the operation of such facility;''.
       (b) Role of Surgeons General.--
       (1) Surgeon general of the army.--Section 3036(f) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(4)(A) The Surgeon General is responsible--
       ``(i) for the medical readiness provided by the military 
     medical treatment facilities of the Army; and
       ``(ii) for maintaining a ready medical force of the Army.
       ``(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Surgeon General 
     shall provide operational oversight of readiness matters of 
     the military medical treatment facilities of the Army.''.
       (2) Surgeon general of the navy.--Section 5137(b) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(4)(A) The Surgeon General is responsible--
       ``(i) for the medical readiness provided by the military 
     medical treatment facilities of the Navy; and
       ``(ii) for maintaining a ready medical force of the Navy.
       ``(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Surgeon General 
     shall provide operational oversight of readiness matters of 
     the military medical treatment facilities of the Navy.''.
       (3) Surgeon general of the air force.--Section 8036(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(4)(A) The Surgeon General is responsible--
       ``(i) for the medical readiness provided by the military 
     medical treatment facilities of the Air Force; and
       ``(ii) for maintaining a ready medical force of the Air 
     Force.
       ``(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Surgeon General 
     shall provide operational oversight of readiness matters of 
     the military medical treatment facilities of the Air 
     Force.''.

     SEC. 712. MAINTENANCE OF INPATIENT CAPABILITIES OF MILITARY 
                   MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES LOCATED OUTSIDE 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       In carrying out section 1073d of title 10, United States 
     Code, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each 
     military medical treatment facility located outside the 
     United States maintains, at a minimum, the inpatient 
     capabilities of such facility as of September 30, 2016.

     SEC. 713. REGULAR UPDATE OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICING 
                   STANDARD UNDER TRICARE RETAIL PHARMACY PROGRAM.

       Section 1074g(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) With respect to the TRICARE retail pharmacy program 
     described in subsection (a)(2)(E)(ii), the Secretary shall 
     ensure that a contract entered into with a TRICARE pharmacy 
     program contractor includes requirements described in section 
     1860D-12(b)(6) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
     112(b)(6)) to ensure the provision of information regarding 
     the pricing standard for prescription drugs.''.

     SEC. 714. RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR PODIATRISTS.

       (a) Requirement.--In addition to any other qualification 
     required by law or regulation, the

[[Page H5568]]

     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that to serve as a 
     podiatrist in the Armed Forces, an individual must have 
     successfully completed a three-year podiatric medicine and 
     surgical residency.
       (b) Application.--Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
     to an individual who is commissioned as an officer in the 
     Armed Forces on or after the date that is one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

     SEC. 721. ONE YEAR EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR 
                   PRESCRIPTION DRUG ACQUISITION COST PARITY IN 
                   THE TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM.

       Section 743(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``October 1, 2017'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2018''; and
       (2) by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2019''.

     SEC. 722. PILOT PROGRAM ON HEALTH CARE ASSISTANCE SYSTEM.

       (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
     out a pilot program to provide a health care assistance 
     service to certain covered beneficiaries enrolled in TRICARE 
     Prime or TRICARE Select to improve the health outcomes and 
     patient experience for covered beneficiaries with complex 
     medical conditions.
       (b) Elements.--The pilot program under subsection (a) may 
     include the following elements:
       (1) Assisting families with complex medical conditions to 
     understand and use the health benefits under the TRICARE 
     program.
       (2) Supporting such families in accessing and navigating 
     the health care delivery system.
       (3) Providing such families with information to allow the 
     families to make informed decisions with health care 
     providers.
       (4) Improving the health outcomes for such families.
       (c) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
     program for an amount of time determined appropriate by the 
     Secretary during the five-year period beginning January 1, 
     2018.
       (d) Report.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate a report containing an 
     evaluation of the success of the pilot program under 
     subsection (a), including an analysis of the implementation 
     of the elements under subsection (b).
       (e) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
     beneficiary'', ``TRICARE Prime'', ``TRICARE program'', and 
     ``TRICARE Select'' have the meaning given those terms in 
     section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 723. RESEARCH OF CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY.

       Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for advanced 
     development for research, development, test, and evaluation 
     for the Defense Health Program, not more than $25,000,000 may 
     be used to award grants to medical researchers and 
     universities to support research into early detection of 
     chronic traumatic encephalopathy.

     SEC. 724. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ELIGIBILITY OF VICTIMS OF ACTS 
                   OF TERROR FOR EVALUATION AND TREATMENT AT 
                   MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.

       Section 717 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking 
     subsection (d) and inserting the following new subsections:
       ``(d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the civilians covered by this section include United States 
     victims of domestic and international terrorism.
       ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `act of terror' means an act of domestic 
     terrorism or international terrorism, as those terms are 
     defined in section 2331 of title 18, United States Code.
       ``(2) The term `covered beneficiary' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
       ``(3) The term `victim', with respect to an act of terror, 
     means an individual who suffered physical injury as a direct 
     result of the act of terror.''.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

     Subtitle A--Defense Acquisition Streamlining and Transparency

                PART I--ACQUISITION SYSTEM STREAMLINING

     SEC. 801. PROCUREMENT THROUGH ONLINE MARKETPLACES.

       (a) Establishment of Program.--The Administrator of General 
     Services shall establish a program to procure commercial 
     products through online marketplaces for purposes of 
     expediting procurement and ensuring reasonable pricing of 
     commercial products. The Administrator shall carry out the 
     program in accordance with this section, through more than 
     one contract with more than one online marketplace provider, 
     and shall design the program to enable Government-wide use of 
     such marketplaces.
       (b) Use of Program by Secretary of Defense.--The Secretary 
     of Defense shall purchase, as appropriate, commercial 
     products for the Department of Defense using the program 
     established pursuant to subsection (a).
       (c) Criteria for Online Marketplaces.--The Administrator 
     shall ensure that an online marketplace used under the 
     program established pursuant to subsection (a)--
       (1) is used widely in the private sector, including in 
     business-to-business e-commerce;
       (2) provides dynamic selection, in which suppliers and 
     products may be frequently updated, and dynamic pricing, in 
     which product prices may be frequently updated;
       (3) enables offers from multiple suppliers on the same or 
     similar products to be sorted or filtered based on product 
     and shipping price, delivery date, and reviews of suppliers 
     or products;
       (4) does not feature or prioritize a product of a supplier 
     based on any compensation or fee paid to the online 
     marketplace by the supplier that is exclusively for such 
     featuring or prioritization on the online marketplace;
       (5) provides the capability for procurement oversight 
     controls, including spending limits, order approval, and 
     order tracking;
       (6) provides consolidated invoicing, payment, and customer 
     service functions for all transactions;
       (7) satisfies requirements for supplier and product 
     screening in subsection (d); and
       (8) collects information necessary to fulfill the 
     information requirements in subsection (h).
       (d) Supplier and Product Screening.--The Administrator 
     shall--
       (1) provide or ensure electronic availability to an online 
     marketplace provider awarded a contract pursuant to 
     subsection (a), no less frequently than the first day of each 
     month--
       (A) the list of suspended and debarred contractors 
     contained in the System of Award Management maintained by the 
     General Services Administration, or any successor system;
       (B) a list of suppliers, by product, that certify 
     compliance with the requirements of section 2533a or 2533b of 
     title 10, United States Code;
       (C) a list of suppliers, by product, that comply with the 
     requirements of, or are subject to an exception under, 
     chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code;
       (D) a list of suppliers, by product, with respect to which 
     the President has issued a waiver under section 301 of the 
     Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2511);
       (E) a list of products, by supplier, that are suitable for 
     the Federal Government to procure pursuant to section 2410n 
     of title 10, United States Code, or section 8503 of title 41, 
     United States Code; and
       (F) a list of suppliers, by product, that are small 
     business concerns;
       (2) conduct reviews of suppliers to establish the lists 
     required under paragraph (1);
       (3) ensure that an online marketplace used under the 
     program established pursuant to subsection (a) provides the 
     ability to search suppliers and products and identify such 
     suppliers and products as authorized or not authorized for 
     purchase during the procurement and order approval process 
     based on the most recent lists provided pursuant to paragraph 
     (1).
       (e) Relationship to Other Provisions of Law.--(1) 
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a procurement of 
     a product made through an online marketplace under the 
     program established pursuant to subsection (a)--
       (A) is deemed to satisfy requirements for full and open 
     competition pursuant to section 2304 of title 10, United 
     States Code, and section 3301 of title 41, United States 
     Code, if there are offers from two or more suppliers of such 
     a product or similar product with substantially the same 
     physical, functional, or performance characteristics on the 
     online marketplace; and
       (B) is deemed to be an award of a prime contract for 
     purposes of the goals established under section 15(g) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)), if the purchase is 
     from a supplier that is a small business concern.
       (2) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as 
     limiting the authority of a department or agency to restrict 
     competition to small business concerns.
       (f) Requirement to Use Standard Terms and Conditions of 
     Online Marketplaces.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, a procurement of a product through a commercial online 
     marketplace used under the program established pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be made under the standard terms and 
     conditions of the marketplace relating to purchasing on the 
     marketplace, and the Administrator shall not require an 
     online marketplace to modify its standard terms and 
     conditions as a condition of receiving a contract pursuant to 
     subsection (a).
       (g) Procedures for Award of Contract.--Notwithstanding 
     section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, or any other 
     provision of law, the award of a contract to an online 
     marketplace provider pursuant to subsection (a) may be made 
     without the use of full and open competition.
       (h) Order Information.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator shall require each 
     online marketplace provider awarded a contract pursuant to 
     subsection (a) to provide to the General Services 
     Administration, not less frequently than the first day of 
     each month, the ability to electronically access the 
     following information with respect to each product ordered 
     during the preceding month:
       (A) The product name and description.
       (B) The date and time of the order.
       (C) The product price.
       (D) The person or entity within the department or agency 
     that purchased the product and, if appropriate, the official 
     who authorized the purchase.
       (E) The delivery address specified in the order for the 
     product.
       (F) The number of suppliers that offered the same product 
     or a similar product with substantially the same physical, 
     functional, or performance characteristics on the same date 
     and time that the product was ordered.
       (2) Data system.--The Administrator shall ensure that order 
     information listed in paragraph (1) is entered into the 
     Federal Procurement Data System described in section 1122 of 
     title 41, United States Code.
       (i) Limitation on Information Disclosure.--In any contract 
     awarded to an online marketplace provider pursuant to 
     subsection (a), the Administrator shall require that the 
     provider

[[Page H5569]]

     agree not to sell or otherwise make available to any third 
     party any of the information listed in subsection (h)(1) in a 
     manner that identifies the Federal Government, or any of its 
     departments or agencies, as the purchaser, except with 
     written consent of the Administrator.
       (j) Comptroller General Review of Small Business 
     Participation.--
       (1) Report requirement.--Not later than three years after a 
     contract with an online marketplace provider is awarded 
     pursuant to subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the committees listed in 
     paragraph (2) a report on small business participation in the 
     program established pursuant to subsection (a). The report 
     shall include--
       (A) the number of small business concerns that have 
     registered or that have sold goods with at least one online 
     marketplace provider;
       (B) trends in small business participation;
       (C) the effect, if any, of the program on the ability of 
     agencies to meet goals established under section 15(g) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)); and
       (D) a discussion of the limitations, if any, to small 
     business participation in the program.
       (2) Committees.--The committees listed in this paragraph 
     are the following:
       (A) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives.
       (B) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform of the House of Representatives.
       (C) The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
     the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (k) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Online marketplace provider.--The term ``online 
     marketplace provider'' means a commercial, non-Government 
     entity providing an online portal for the purchase of 
     commercial products aggregated, distributed, sold, or 
     manufactured by such entity. The term does not include an 
     online portal managed by the Government for, or predominantly 
     for use by, Government agencies.
       (2) Commercial product.--The term ``commercial product'' 
     means a commercially available off-the-shelf item, as defined 
     in section 104 of title 41, United States Code, except the 
     term does not include services.
       (3) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
     concern'' has the meaning given such term under section 3 of 
     the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

     SEC. 802. PERFORMANCE OF INCURRED COST AUDITS.

       (a) Performance of Incurred Cost Audits.--Chapter 137 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     section 2313a the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2313b. Performance of incurred cost audits

       ``(a) Compliance With Standards of Risk and Materiality.--
     For purposes of performing an incurred cost audit of costs 
     associated with a contract of the Department of Defense, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall comply with commercially accepted 
     standards of risk and materiality.
       ``(b) Selection of Auditing Entity to Perform Incurred Cost 
     Audits.--(1) For an incurred cost audit of a contract of the 
     Department of Defense, the Defense Contract Management Agency 
     or a contract administration office of a military department 
     shall have the authority to select the Defense Contract Audit 
     Agency or a qualified private auditor to perform an incurred 
     cost audit, based upon guidelines that--
       ``(A) are issued by an audit planning committee that is 
     comprised of one representative from each of the office of 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment, the Defense Contract Management Agency, a 
     contract administration office of a military department, and 
     the Defense Contract Audit Agency;
       ``(B) ensure that, after September 1, 2020, not less than 
     25 percent of incurred costs on flexibly priced contracts are 
     audited by qualified private auditors; and
       ``(C) ensure that multi-year auditing is conducted only to 
     address outstanding incurred cost audits for which a 
     qualified incurred cost submission was submitted to the 
     Defense Contract Audit Agency more than 12 months before the 
     date of the enactment of this section.
       ``(2)(A) Not later than September 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall award an indefinite delivery-indefinite 
     quantity task order contract to two or more qualified private 
     auditors to perform incurred cost audits of costs associated 
     with contracts of the Department of Defense.
       ``(B) The Defense Contract Management Agency, a contract 
     administration office of a military department, or an 
     authorized entity outside the Department of the Defense may 
     issue a task order to perform an incurred cost audit to a 
     qualified private auditor under a task order contract awarded 
     under subparagraph (A). Such task order may be issued only to 
     a qualified private auditor that certifies that the qualified 
     private auditor possesses the necessary independence to 
     perform such an audit.
       ``(C) The Defense Contract Audit Agency may not conduct 
     further audit or review of an incurred cost audit performed 
     by a qualified private auditor pursuant to this section, 
     unless requested to do so as part of conducting contract 
     quality assurance functions in accordance with the Federal 
     Acquisition Regulation.
       ``(3)(A) Effective September 1, 2022, the Defense Contract 
     Audit Agency may issue unqualified audit findings for an 
     incurred cost audit only if the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     is peer reviewed by a commercial auditor and passes such peer 
     review. Such peer review shall be conducted in accordance 
     with the peer review requirements of the generally accepted 
     government auditing standards of the Comptroller General of 
     the United States and shall be deemed to meet the 
     requirements of the Defense Contract Audit Agency for a peer 
     review under such standards.
       ``(B) The peer review referred to in subparagraph (A) shall 
     occur not less frequently than once every three years.
       ``(C) Not later than September 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives an update on the process of 
     securing a commercial auditor to perform the peer review 
     referred to in subparagraph (A).
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall consider the results 
     of an incurred cost audit performed under this section 
     without regard to whether the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     or a qualified private auditor performed the audit.
       ``(5) The contracting officer for a contract that is the 
     subject of an incurred cost audit shall have the sole 
     discretion to accept or reject an audit finding on direct 
     costs of the contract.
       ``(c) Materiality Standards for Incurred Cost Audits.--(1) 
     Not later than September 1, 2020, and except as provided in 
     paragraph (2), the minimum materiality standard used by an 
     auditor shall--
       ``(A) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount less 
     than or equal to $100,000, be 4 percent of such costs;
       ``(B) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $100,000 but less than $500,000, be $2,000 plus 
     2 percent of such costs;
       ``(C) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $500,000 but less than $1,000,000, be $5,000 
     plus 1 percent of such costs;
       ``(D) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $1,000,000 but less than $5,000,000, be $8,000 
     plus 0.9 percent of such costs;
       ``(E) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $5,000,000 but less than $10,000,000, be $13,000 
     plus 0.8 percent of such costs;
       ``(F) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $10,000,000 but less than $50,000,000, be 
     $23,000 plus 0.7 percent of such costs;
       ``(G) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $50,000,000 but less than $100,000,000, be 
     $73,000 plus 0.6 percent of such costs;
       ``(H) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $100,000,000 but less than $500,000,000, be 
     $153,000 plus 0.52 percent of such costs; and
       ``(I) for a incurred cost audit of costs in an amount 
     greater than $500,000,000, be $503,000 plus 0.45 percent of 
     such costs.
       ``(2) An auditor that performs an incurred cost audit under 
     this section may use a materiality standard of a lesser 
     amount than the materiality standard described under 
     paragraph (1) with respect to a particular qualified incurred 
     cost submission from a contractor based on an assessment of 
     risk presented by such qualified incurred cost submission. 
     The risk shall be assessed by the auditor in accordance with 
     generally accepted government auditing standards and guidance 
     issued by the Secretary of Defense.
       ``(3) Not later than March 1, 2019, the Comptroller General 
     of the United States shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report on practices for assessing risk 
     and materiality in auditing, which shall include--
       ``(A) a summary of commercially accepted standards of risk 
     and materiality and Government standards for risk and 
     materiality as related to incurred cost audits;
       ``(B) examples of how commercial auditing firms apply such 
     standards in developing methodologies for conducting incurred 
     cost audits; and
       ``(C) recommendations, if appropriate, to modify the 
     minimum materiality standards under paragraph (1) to be 
     consistent with commercially accepted standards of risk and 
     materiality.
       ``(4) Not later than September 1, 2019, and every 5 years 
     thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on commercially 
     accepted standards of risk and materiality as related to 
     incurred cost audits. The report may contain recommendations 
     to modify the materiality standards under paragraph (1) to be 
     consistent with such commercially accepted standards of risk 
     and materiality.
       ``(d) Timeliness of Incurred Cost Audits.--(1) The 
     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all incurred cost 
     audits performed pursuant to subsection (b) are performed in 
     a timely manner.
       ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall notify a contractor 
     within 60 days after receipt of an incurred cost submission 
     from the contractor whether the submission is a qualified 
     incurred cost submission.
       ``(3) With respect to qualified incurred cost submissions 
     received on or after the date of the enactment of this 
     section, audit findings shall be issued for an incurred cost 
     audit not later than one year after the date of receipt of 
     such qualified incurred cost submission.
       ``(4) If audit findings are not issued within one year 
     after the date of receipt of a qualified incurred cost 
     submission, such qualified incurred cost submission shall be 
     considered accepted in its entirety unless the Secretary of 
     Defense can demonstrate that the contractor unreasonably 
     withheld information necessary to perform the incurred cost 
     audit.
       ``(e) Review of Audit Performance.--Not later than April 1, 
     2025, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     provide a report to the congressional defense committees that 
     evaluates for the period beginning on September 1, 2020, and 
     ending on August 31, 2023--
       ``(1) the timeliness, individual cost, and quality of 
     incurred cost audits, set forth separately by incurred cost 
     audits performed by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and by 
     qualified private auditors;
       ``(2) the cost to contractors of the Department of Defense 
     for incurred cost audits, set forth

[[Page H5570]]

     separately by incurred cost audits performed by the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency and by qualified private auditors;
       ``(3) the effect, if any, on other types of audits 
     conducted by the Defense Contract Audit Agency that results 
     from incurred cost audits conducted by qualified private 
     auditors; and
       ``(4) the capability and capacity of commercial auditors to 
     conduct incurred cost audits for the Department of Defense.
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `commercial auditor' means a private entity 
     engaged in the business of performing audits.
       ``(2) The term `flexibly priced contract' means--
       ``(A) a cost-type contract, fixed-price incentive fee 
     contract, or price-redeterminable contract, or a task order 
     issued under an indefinite delivery-indefinite quantity task 
     order contract, for which final payment is based on actual 
     costs incurred; or
       ``(B) the materials portion of a time-and-materials 
     contract or labor-hour contract of the Department of Defense.
       ``(3) The term `incurred cost audit' means an audit of 
     charges to the Government by a contractor under a flexibly 
     priced contract.
       ``(4) The term `materiality standard' means a dollar amount 
     of misstatements, including omissions, contained in an 
     incurred cost audit that would be material if the 
     misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, could 
     reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
     the Government made on the basis of the incurred cost audit.
       ``(5) The term `qualified incurred cost submission' means a 
     submission by a contractor of costs incurred under a flexibly 
     priced contract that has been qualified by the Department of 
     Defense as sufficient to conduct an incurred cost audit.
       ``(6) The term `qualified private auditor' means a 
     commercial auditor--
       ``(A) that performs audits in accordance with generally 
     accepted government auditing standards of the Comptroller 
     General of the United States; and
       ``(B) that has received a passing peer review rating, as 
     defined under the generally accepted government auditing 
     standards.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2313a the following new item:

``2313b. Performance of incurred cost audits.''.

     SEC. 803. MODIFICATIONS TO COST OR PRICING DATA AND REPORTING 
                   REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) Modifications to Submissions of Cost or Pricing Data.--
       (1) Title 10.--Subsection (a) of section 2306a of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking ``December 5, 1990'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``June 30, 2018'';
       (B) by striking ``December 5, 1991'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``July 1, 2018'';
       (C) by striking ``$100,000'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (D) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in subparagraphs (A)(i), (B)(i), (C)(i), (C)(ii), and 
     (D)(i), by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting 
     ``$2,500,000''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (E) in paragraph (6), by striking ``December 5, 1990'' and 
     inserting ``June 30, 2018''; and
       (F) in paragraph (7), by striking ``to the amount'' and all 
     that follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and 
     inserting ``in accordance with section 1908 of title 41.''.
       (2) Title 41.--Section 3502 of title 41, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by striking ``October 13, 1994'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``June 30, 2018'';
       (ii) by striking ``$100,000'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (iii) in paragraphs (1)(A), (2)(A), (3)(A), (3)(B), and 
     (4)(A), by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting 
     ``$2,500,000''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
     inserting ``$750,000'';
       (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``October 13, 1994'' and 
     inserting ``June 30, 2018''; and
       (C) in subsection (g), by striking ``to the amount'' and 
     all that follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and 
     inserting ``in accordance with section 1908.''.
       (b) Modification to Authority to Require Submission.--
     Paragraph (1) of section 2306a(d) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``the contracting officer shall 
     require submission of'' and all the follows through ``to the 
     extent necessary'' and inserting ``the offeror shall be 
     required to submit to the contracting officer data other than 
     certified cost or pricing data (if requested by the 
     contracting officer), to the extent necessary''.
       (c) Comptroller General Review of Modifications to Cost or 
     Pricing Data Submission Requirements.--Not later than March 
     1, 2022, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the implementation and effect of the amendments made by 
     subsections (a) and (b).
       (d) Requirements for Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     Report.--
       (1) In general.--Section 2313a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A)--

       (I) by inserting ``and dollar value'' after ``number''; and
       (II) by inserting ``, set forth separately by type of 
     audit'' after ``pending'';

       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``, both from the 
     date of receipt of a qualified incurred cost submission and 
     from the date the audit begins'' after ``audit'';
       (iii) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:
       ``(D) the sustained questioned costs, set forth separately 
     by type of audit, both as a total value and as a percentage 
     of the total questioned costs for the audit;'';
       (iv) by striking subparagraph (E); and
       (v) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
     subparagraphs:
       ``(E) the total number and dollar value of incurred cost 
     audits completed, and the method by which such incurred cost 
     audits were completed;
       ``(F) the aggregate cost of performing audits, set forth 
     separately by type of audit;
       ``(G) the ratio of sustained questioned costs to the 
     aggregate costs of performing audits, set forth separately by 
     type of audit; and
       ``(H) the total number and dollar value of audits that are 
     pending for a period longer than one year as of the end of 
     the fiscal year covered by the report, and the fiscal year in 
     which the qualified submission was received, set forth 
     separately by type of audit;''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Definitions.--
       ``(1) The terms `incurred cost audit' and `qualified 
     incurred cost submission' have the meaning given those terms 
     in section 2313b of this title.
       ``(2) The term `sustained questioned costs' means 
     questioned costs that were recovered by the Federal 
     Government as a result of contract negotiations related to 
     such questioned costs.''.
       (2) Exemption to report termination requirements.--Section 
     1080 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1000; 10 U.S.C. 111 
     note), as amended by section 1061(j) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), 
     does not apply to the report required to be submitted to 
     Congress under section 2313a of title 10, United States Code.
       (e) Adjustment to Value of Covered Contracts for 
     Requirements Relating to Allowable Costs.--Subparagraph (B) 
     of section 2324(l)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``to the equivalent'' and all that 
     follows through ``higher multiple of $50,000.'' and inserting 
     ``in accordance with section 1908 of title 41.''.

           PART II--EARLY INVESTMENTS IN ACQUISITION PROGRAMS

     SEC. 811. REQUIREMENT TO EMPHASIZE RELIABILITY AND 
                   MAINTAINABILITY IN WEAPON SYSTEM DESIGN.

       (a) Sustainment Factors in Weapon System Design.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2442. Sustainment factors in weapon system design

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that the defense acquisition system gives ample emphasis to 
     sustainment factors, particularly those factors that are 
     affected principally by the design of a weapon system, in the 
     development of a weapon system.
       ``(b) Requirements Process.--The Secretary shall ensure 
     that reliability and maintainability are included in the 
     performance attributes of the key performance parameter on 
     sustainment during the development of capabilities 
     requirements.
       ``(c) Solicitation and Award of Contracts.--
       ``(1) Requirement.--The program manager of a weapon system 
     shall include in the solicitation for and terms of a covered 
     contract for the weapon system clearly defined and measurable 
     requirements for engineering activities and design 
     specifications for reliability and maintainability.
       ``(2) Exception.--If the program manager determines that 
     engineering activities and design specifications for 
     reliability or maintainability should not be a requirement in 
     a covered contract, the program manager shall document in 
     writing the justification for the decision.
       ``(3) Source selection criteria.--The Secretary shall 
     ensure that sustainment factors, including reliability and 
     maintainability, are given ample emphasis in the process for 
     source selection. The Secretary shall encourage the use of 
     objective reliability and maintainability criteria in the 
     evaluation of competitive proposals.
       ``(d) Contract Performance.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     Department of Defense uses best practices for responding to 
     the positive or negative performance of a contractor in 
     meeting the sustainment requirements of a covered contract 
     for a weapon system. The Secretary shall encourage the use of 
     incentive fees authorized in paragraph (2) in all covered 
     contracts for weapons systems. The Secretary shall take the 
     necessary actions to enable program offices to execute the 
     recovery options required for each covered contract under 
     paragraph (3).
       ``(2) Authority for incentive fees.--The Secretary of 
     Defense is authorized to pay an incentive fee to a contractor 
     that exceeds the design specification requirements for 
     reliability or maintainability for a covered contract. In 
     exercising the authority provided in this paragraph, the 
     Secretary may provide in the terms of the contract for the 
     payment of an incentive fee to a contractor not later than 
     the date of acceptance of the last item under the contract.
       ``(3) Recovery options.--(A) Any covered contract for a 
     weapon system shall include terms for amounts to be paid by 
     the contractor to the Government for failure to meet the 
     design specification requirements for reliability and 
     maintainability of the contract by the date of acceptance of 
     the last item under the contract. Terms for such amounts 
     shall be included in the solicitation for the contract. Such 
     terms shall include provisions providing that--
       ``(i) the contractor, at no or minimal cost to the 
     Government as determined by the Secretary

[[Page H5571]]

     and included in the contract, identifies the cause of the 
     failure in the system design, develops an engineering change, 
     and, in the case of a production contract, modifies all end 
     items to be delivered or already delivered under the 
     contract; or
       ``(ii) the contractor provides the Government--
       ``(I) a refund in the amount required to identify the cause 
     of the failure in the system design, develop an engineering 
     change, and modify all end items delivered under the 
     contract; and
       ``(II) associated technical data required to make the 
     necessary modifications.
       ``(B) The Secretary may waive the requirement in 
     subparagraph (A) with respect to a covered contract if the 
     Secretary determines that such requirement is not in the 
     national security interests of the United States.
       ``(4) Measurement of reliability and maintainability.--In 
     carrying out paragraphs (2) and (3), the program manager 
     shall base determinations of a contractor's performance on 
     reliability and maintainability data collected during 
     developmental testing and operational testing.
       ``(e) Covered Contract Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `covered contract', with respect to a weapon system, means a 
     contract--
       ``(1) for the engineering and manufacturing development of 
     a weapon system; or
       ``(2) for the production of a weapon system.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter I of such chapter is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``2442. Sustainment factors in weapon system design.''.
       (b) Effective Date for Certain Provisions.--Subsections (c) 
     and (d) of section 2442 of title 10, United States Code, as 
     added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to any 
     covered contract (as defined in that section) for which the 
     contract solicitation is issued on or after the date 
     occurring one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (c) Investment Program Authorized.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     an investment program for funding engineering changes to the 
     design of a weapon system in the engineering and 
     manufacturing development phase or in the production phase of 
     an acquisition program to improve reliability or 
     maintainability of the weapon system and reduce projected 
     operating and support costs. The program may be funded from 
     the Defense Modernization Account authorized in section 2216 
     of title 10, United States Code. A program manager may apply 
     for available funds by presenting a business case analysis of 
     the anticipated return on investment of such funds.
       (2) Briefing required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
     departments, shall provide a briefing to the Committees on 
     Armed Services in the Senate and the House of Representatives 
     on an implementation plan for the program authorized under 
     paragraph (1). The implementation plan shall set forth the 
     process by which program managers apply for available funds, 
     including information on the validation of business case 
     analyses and the evaluation of applications. The briefing 
     shall also include the results of a review of past or 
     existing programs to improve reliability and maintainability 
     and reduce operating and support costs of weapon systems, an 
     assessment of best practices and lessons learned from these 
     programs, and an assessment of the opportunities for 
     consolidation of existing similar programs.

     SEC. 812. LICENSING OF APPROPRIATE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY TO 
                   SUPPORT MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS.

       (a) Negotiation of Price for Technical Data Before 
     Development or Production of Major Weapon System.--
       (1) Requirement.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2438 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2439. Negotiation of price for technical data before 
       development or production of major weapon systems

       ``The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Department 
     of Defense, before selecting a contractor for the engineering 
     and manufacturing development of a major weapon system, or 
     for the production of a major weapon system, negotiates a 
     price for technical data to be delivered under a contract for 
     such development or production.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2438 the following new item:

``2439. Negotiation of price for technical data before development or 
              production of major weapon systems.''.
       (3) Effective date.--Section 2439 of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with 
     respect to any contract for engineering and manufacturing 
     development of a major weapon system, or for the production 
     of a major weapon system, for which the contract solicitation 
     is issued on or after the date occurring one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Written Determination for Milestone B Approval.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a)(3) of section 2366b of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (M); and
       (B) by inserting after subparagraph (N) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(O) appropriate actions have been taken to negotiate and 
     enter into a contract or contract options for the technical 
     data required to support the program; and''.
       (2) Effective date.--Section 2366b(a)(3)(O) of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply 
     with respect to any major defense acquisition program 
     receiving Milestone B approval on or after the date occurring 
     one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Preference for Negotiation of Customized License 
     Agreements.--Section 2320 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (g) and (h), respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
     subsection (f):
       ``(f) Preference for Specially Negotiated Licenses.--The 
     Secretary of Defense shall, to the maximum extent 
     practicable, negotiate and enter into a contract with a 
     contractor for a specially negotiated license for technical 
     data to support the product support strategy of a major 
     weapon system or subsystem of a major weapon system. In 
     performing the assessment and developing the corresponding 
     strategy required under subsection (e) for such a system or 
     subsystem, a program manager shall consider the use of 
     specially negotiated licenses to acquire customized technical 
     data appropriate for the particular elements of the product 
     support strategy.''.

     SEC. 813. MANAGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS WITHIN 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Management of Intellectual Property.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2321 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2322. Management of intellectual property matters 
       within the Department of Defense

       ``(a) Office and Director of Intellectual Property.--(1) 
     There is an Office of Intellectual Property within the Office 
     of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment.
       ``(2) The Office shall be headed by a Director of 
     Intellectual Property, who shall have the qualifications 
     described in paragraph (3). The Director is responsible in 
     the Department of Defense to the Under Secretary of Defense 
     for Acquisition and Sustainment for policy and oversight of 
     the acquisition and licensing of intellectual property within 
     the Department of Defense. The Director shall report directly 
     to the Under Secretary.
       ``(3) In order to qualify to be assigned to the position of 
     Director, an individual shall--
       ``(A) have management expertise in, and professional 
     experience with, intellectual property matters, including an 
     understanding of intellectual property law, regulations, and 
     policies, especially with respect to regulations and policies 
     of the Federal Government and the Department of Defense for 
     acquiring or licensing intellectual property, and best 
     practices for negotiating and executing business arrangements 
     with industry for the acquisition or licensing of 
     intellectual property;
       ``(B) have an understanding of Department of Defense weapon 
     system acquisition; and
       ``(C) have an understanding of the commercial marketplace; 
     commercial industry operations, including supply chain 
     operations; business strategies; and private investment in 
     research and development.
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall designate the position 
     of Director as a critical acquisition position under section 
     1733(b)(1)(C) of this title.
       ``(b) Duties.--(1) The Director of Intellectual Property 
     (in this section referred to as the `Director') shall oversee 
     and coordinate efforts throughout the Department of Defense 
     to acquire or license intellectual property within the 
     Department of Defense. The duties under this paragraph shall 
     include the duties specified in paragraphs (2) through (8).
       ``(2) The Director shall develop and recommend any policy 
     guidance on the acquisition or licensing of intellectual 
     property to be issued by the Secretary of Defense.
       ``(3) The Director shall provide oversight and coordination 
     of the efforts within the Department of Defense to acquire or 
     license intellectual property--
       ``(A) to ensure that program managers are aware of the 
     rights afforded the Federal Government and contractors in 
     intellectual property and that program managers fully 
     consider and use all available techniques and best practices 
     for acquiring or licensing intellectual property early in the 
     acquisition process;
       ``(B) to enable consistency across the military departments 
     and the Department of Defense in strategies for obtaining 
     intellectual property and communicating with industry; and
       ``(C) to raise awareness within the acquisition, science 
     and technology, and logistics communities within the 
     Department of intellectual property issues.
       ``(4) The Director shall assist program managers in 
     developing customized intellectual property strategies for 
     each weapon system based on, at a minimum, the unique 
     characteristics of the weapon system and its components, the 
     product support strategy for the weapon system, the organic 
     industrial base strategy of the military department 
     concerned, and the commercial market.
       ``(5) The Director shall develop resources, including 
     guidelines on intellectual property matters and, as 
     appropriate, templates for specially negotiated licenses, and 
     make them available to the acquisition workforce.
       ``(6) The Director shall establish, maintain, supervise, 
     and assign to program offices the cadre of intellectual 
     property experts established under subsection (c).
       ``(7) The Director, in coordination with the Defense 
     Acquisition University and in consultation with industry, 
     shall--
       ``(A) develop a career path, including development 
     opportunities, talent management programs, and training, for 
     the cadre of intellectual

[[Page H5572]]

     property experts established under subsection (c); and
       ``(B) develop, update, and coordinate intellectual property 
     training provided to the acquisition workforce.
       ``(8) The Director shall foster communications with 
     industry and serve as a central point of contact within the 
     Department of Defense for communications with contractors on 
     intellectual property matters. The Director may interact 
     directly with industry, trade associations, other Government 
     agencies, academic research and educational institutions, and 
     scientific organizations engaged in intellectual property 
     matters.
       ``(c) Cadre of Intellectual Property Experts.--(1) The 
     Director shall establish within the Office of Intellectual 
     Property a cadre of personnel who are experts in intellectual 
     property matters. The purpose of the cadre is to ensure a 
     consistent, strategic, and highly knowledgeable approach to 
     acquiring or licensing intellectual property by providing 
     expert advice, assistance, and resources to the acquisition 
     workforce on intellectual property matters, including 
     acquiring or licensing intellectual property.
       ``(2) The cadre of experts shall be assigned to a weapons 
     system program office or an acquisition command within a 
     military department to advise, assist, and provide resources 
     to a program manager or program executive officer on 
     intellectual property matters at various stages of the life 
     cycle of a weapon system. In performing such duties, the 
     experts shall--
       ``(A) interpret and provide counsel on laws, regulations, 
     and policies relating to intellectual property;
       ``(B) advise and assist in the development of an 
     acquisition strategy, product support strategy, and 
     intellectual property strategy for a weapon system;
       ``(C) conduct or assist with financial analysis and 
     valuation of intellectual property;
       ``(D) assist in the drafting of a contract solicitation or 
     contract;
       ``(E) interact with or assist in interactions with 
     contractors, including communications and negotiations with 
     contractors on contract solicitations and contract awards; 
     and
       ``(F) conduct or assist with mediation if technical data 
     delivered pursuant to a contract is incomplete or does not 
     comply with the terms of the contract.
       ``(3)(A) In order to achieve the purpose set forth in 
     paragraph (1), the Director shall ensure the cadre has the 
     appropriate number of staff and such staff possesses the 
     necessary skills, knowledge, and experience to carry out the 
     duties under paragraph (2), including in relevant areas of 
     law, contracting, acquisition, logistics, engineering, 
     financial analysis, and valuation. The Director may use 
     existing authorities to staff the cadre, including those in 
     subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (F).
       ``(B) Civilian personnel from within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, military departments, 
     Defense Agencies, and combatant commands may be assigned to 
     serve as members of the cadre, upon request of the Director.
       ``(C) The Director may use the authorities for highly 
     qualified experts under section 9903 of title 5, to hire 
     experts as members of the cadre who are skilled professionals 
     in intellectual property and related matters.
       ``(D) The Director may enter into a contract with a 
     private-sector entity for specialized expertise to support 
     the cadre. Such entity may be considered a covered Government 
     support contractor, as defined in section 2320 of this title.
       ``(E) In establishing the cadre, the Director shall give 
     preference to civilian employees of the Department of 
     Defense, rather than members of the armed forces, to maintain 
     continuity in the cadre.
       ``(F) The Director is authorized to use funding from the 
     Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund for the 
     purpose of recruitment, training, and retention of the cadre, 
     including paying salaries of newly hired members of the cadre 
     for up to three years.
       ``(G) Members of the cadre shall report to the Director.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2322. Management of intellectual property matters within the 
              Department of Defense.''.
       (b) Placement in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.--
     Subsection 131(b)(8) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(J) The Director of the Office of Intellectual Property 
     assigned pursuant to section 2322(a) of this title.''.
       (c) Additional Acquisition Position.--Subsection 1721(b) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(12) Intellectual property.''.
       (d) Review of Acquisition Workforce Training.--Not later 
     than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall revise the education and 
     training programs provided to the acquisition workforce under 
     chapter 87 of title 10, United States Code--
       (1) to ensure the acquisition workforce maintains a basic 
     familiarity with the fundamental aspects of the acquisition 
     and licensing of intellectual property; and
       (2) to establish and maintain advanced expertise in the 
     acquisition and licensing of intellectual property to staff 
     the cadre of intellectual property experts required under 
     section 2322 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 814. IMPROVEMENT OF PLANNING FOR ACQUISITION OF 
                   SERVICES.

       (a) In General.--
       (1) Improvement of planning for acquisition of services.--
     Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting after section 2328 the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2329. Procurement of services: data analysis and 
       requirements validation

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
     that--
       ``(1) appropriate and sufficiently detailed data are 
     collected and analyzed to support the validation of 
     requirements for services contracts and inform the planning, 
     programming, budgeting, and execution process of the 
     Department of Defense;
       ``(2) requirements for services contracts are evaluated 
     appropriately and in a timely manner to inform decisions 
     regarding the procurement of services; and
       ``(3) decisions regarding the procurement of services 
     consider available resources and total force management 
     policies and procedures.
       ``(b) Specification of Amounts Requested in Budget.--
     Effective October 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     annually submit to Congress information on services contracts 
     that clearly and separately identifies the amount requested 
     for each category of services to be procured for each Defense 
     Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, command, or 
     military installation. Such information shall--
       ``(1) be submitted at or about the time of the budget 
     submission by the President under section 1105(a) of title 
     31;
       ``(2) cover the fiscal year covered by such budget 
     submission by the President;
       ``(3) be consistent with total amounts of estimated 
     expenditures and proposed appropriations necessary to support 
     the programs, projects, and activities of the Department of 
     Defense included in such budget submission by the President 
     for that fiscal year; and
       ``(4) be organized using a common enterprise data structure 
     developed under section 2222 of this title.
       ``(c) Data Analysis.--(1) Each Secretary of a military 
     department shall regularly analyze past spending patterns and 
     anticipated future requirements with respect to the 
     procurement of services within such military department.
       ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall regularly analyze 
     past spending patterns and anticipated future requirements 
     with respect to the procurement of services--
       ``(i) within each Defense Agency and Department of Defense 
     Field Activity; and
       ``(ii) across military departments, Defense Agencies, and 
     Department of Defense Field Activities.
       ``(B) The Secretaries of the military departments shall 
     make data on services contracts available to the Secretary of 
     Defense for purposes of conducting the analysis required 
     under subparagraph (A).
       ``(3) The analyses conducted under this subsection shall--
       ``(A) identify contracts for similar services that are 
     procured for three or more consecutive years at each Defense 
     Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, command, or 
     military installation;
       ``(B) evaluate patterns in the procurement of services, to 
     the extent practicable, at each Defense Agency, Department of 
     Defense Field Activity, command, or military installation and 
     by category of services procured;
       ``(C) be used to validate requirements for services 
     contracts entered into after the date of the enactment of 
     this subsection; and
       ``(D) be used to inform decisions on the award of and 
     funding for such services contracts.
       ``(d) Requirements Evaluation.--Each Services Requirements 
     Review Board shall evaluate each requirement for a services 
     contract, taking into consideration total force management 
     policies and procedures, available resources, the analyses 
     conducted under subsection (c), and contracting efficacy and 
     efficiency. An evaluation of a services contract for 
     compliance with contracting policies and procedures may not 
     be considered to be an evaluation of a requirement for such 
     services contract.
       ``(e) Timely Planning to Avoid Bridge Contracts.--(1) 
     Effective October 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     ensure that a requirements owner shall, to the extent 
     practicable, plan appropriately before the date of need of a 
     service at a Defense Agency, Department of Defense Field 
     Activity, command, or military installation to avoid the use 
     of a bridge contract to provide for continuation of a service 
     to be performed through a services contract. Such planning 
     shall include allowing time for a requirement to be 
     validated, a services contract to be entered into, and 
     funding for the services contract to be secured.
       ``(2)(A) Upon the first use, due to inadequate planning (as 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense), of a bridge contract 
     to provide for continuation of a service to be performed 
     through a services contract, the requirements owner, along 
     with the contracting officer or a designee of the contracting 
     officer for the contract, shall--
       ``(i) for a services contract in an amount less than 
     $10,000,000, provide an update on the status of the bridge 
     contract (including the rationale for using the bridge 
     contract) to the commander or the senior civilian official of 
     the Defense Agency concerned, Department of Defense Field 
     Activity concerned, command concerned, or military 
     installation concerned, as applicable; or
       ``(ii) for a services contract in an amount equal to or 
     greater than $10,000,000, provide an update on the status of 
     the bridge contract (including the rationale for using the 
     bridge contract) to the service acquisition executive for the 
     military department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
     concerned, the combatant commander concerned, or the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, as 
     applicable.
       ``(B) Upon the second use, due to inadequate planning (as 
     determined by the Secretary of Defense), of a bridge contract 
     to provide for continuation of a service to be performed 
     through a

[[Page H5573]]

     services contract in an amount less than $10,000,000, the 
     commander or senior civilian official referred to in 
     subparagraph (A)(i) shall provide notification of such second 
     use to the Vice Chief of Staff of the armed force concerned 
     and the service acquisition executive of the military 
     department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
     concerned, the combatant commander concerned, or the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, as 
     applicable.
       ``(f) Exception.--Except with respect to the analyses 
     required under subsection (c), this section shall not apply 
     to--
       ``(1) services contracts in support of contingency 
     operations, humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, or 
     national security emergencies; or
       ``(2) services contracts entered into pursuant to an 
     international agreement.
       ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `bridge contact' means--
       ``(A) an extension to an existing contract beyond the 
     period of performance to avoid a lapse in service caused by a 
     delay in awarding a subsequent contract; or
       ``(B) a new short-term contract awarded on a sole-source 
     basis to avoid a lapse in service caused by a delay in 
     awarding a subsequent contract.
       ``(2) The term `requirements owner' means a member of the 
     armed forces (other than the Coast Guard) or a civilian 
     employee of the Department of Defense responsible for a 
     requirement for a service to be performed through a services 
     contract.
       ``(3) The term `Services Requirements Review Board' has the 
     meaning given in Department of Defense Instruction 5000.74, 
     titled `Defense Acquisition of Services' and dated January 5, 
     2016, or a successor instruction.''
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2328 the following new item:

``2329. Procurement of services: data analysis and requirements 
              validation.''.
       (b) Conforming Repeal.--Effective October 1, 2022--
       (1) section 235 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     repealed; and
       (2) the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 of 
     such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
     section 235.

     SEC. 815. IMPROVEMENTS TO TEST AND EVALUATION PROCESSES AND 
                   TOOLS.

       (a) Developmental Test Plan Sufficiency Assessments.--
       (1) Addition to milestone b brief summary report.--Section 
     2366b(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); 
     and
       (B) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
     subparagraph (G):
       ``(G) An assessment of the sufficiency of developmental 
     test and evaluation plans, including the use of automated 
     data analytics or modeling and simulation tools.''.
       (2) Addition to milestone c brief summary report.--Section 
     2366c(a) of such title is amended by inserting after 
     paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) An assessment of the sufficiency of the developmental 
     test and evaluation completed, including the use of automated 
     data analytics or modeling and simulation tools.''.
       (3) Responsibility for conducting assessments.--For 
     purposes of the sufficiency assessments required by section 
     2366b(c)(1) and section 2366c(a)(4) of such title, as added 
     by paragraphs (1) and (2), with respect to a major defense 
     acquisition program--
       (A) if the milestone decision authority for the program is 
     the service acquisition executive of the military department 
     that is managing the program, the sufficiency assessment 
     shall be conducted by the senior official within the military 
     department with responsibility for developmental testing; and
       (B) if the milestone decision authority for the program is 
     the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
     Sustainment, the sufficiency assessment shall be conducted by 
     the senior Department of Defense official with responsibility 
     for developmental testing.
       (4) Guidance required.--Within one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the senior Department of Defense 
     official with responsibility for developmental testing shall 
     develop guidance for the sufficiency assessments required by 
     section 2366b(c)(1) and section 2366c(a)(4) of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraphs (1) and (2). At a 
     minimum, the guidance shall require--
       (A) for the sufficiency assessment required by section 
     2366b(c)(1) of such title, that the assessment address the 
     sufficiency of--
       (i) the developmental test and evaluation plan;
       (ii) the developmental test and evaluation schedule, 
     including a comparison to historic analogous systems;
       (iii) the developmental test and evaluation resources 
     (facilities, personnel, test assets, data analytics tools, 
     and modeling and simulation capabilities);
       (iv) the risks of developmental test and production 
     concurrency; and
       (v) the developmental test criteria for entering the 
     production phase; and
       (B) for the sufficiency assessment required by section 
     2366c(a)(4) of such title, that the assessment address--
       (i) the sufficiency of the developmental test and 
     evaluation completed;
       (ii) the sufficiency of the plans and resources available 
     for remaining developmental test and evaluation;
       (iii) the risks identified during developmental testing to 
     the production and deployment phase;
       (iv) the sufficiency of the plans and resources for 
     remaining developmental test and evaluation; and
       (v) the readiness of the system to perform scheduled 
     initial operational test and evaluation.
       (b) Evaluation of Department of Defense Need for 
     Centralized Tools for Developmental Test and Evaluation.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate 
     the strategy of the Department of Defense for developing and 
     expanding the use of tools designed to facilitate the cost 
     effectiveness and efficiency of developmental testing, 
     including automated test methods and tools, modeling and 
     simulation tools, and big data analytics technologies. The 
     evaluation shall include a determination of the appropriate 
     role of the senior Department of Defense official with 
     responsibility for developmental testing in developing 
     enterprise level strategies related to such types of testing 
     tools.
       (2) Briefing required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives on the results of the evaluation 
     required by paragraph (1).

              PART III--ACQUISITION WORKFORCE IMPROVEMENTS

     SEC. 821. ENHANCEMENTS TO THE CIVILIAN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 
                   WORKFORCE.

       (a) Establishment of Program Manager Development Program.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall 
     implement a program manager development program to provide 
     for the professional development of high-potential, 
     experienced civilian personnel. Personnel shall be 
     competitively selected for the program based on their 
     potential to become a program manager of a major defense 
     acquisition program, as defined in section 2430 of title 10, 
     United States Code. The program shall be administered and 
     overseen by the Secretary of each military department, acting 
     through the service acquisition executive for the department 
     concerned.
       (2) Plan required.--Not later than one year after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives a comprehensive plan to 
     implement the program established under paragraph (1). In 
     developing the plan, the Secretary of Defense shall seek the 
     input of relevant external parties, including professional 
     associations, other government entities, and industry. The 
     plan shall include the following elements:
       (A) An assessment of the minimum level of subject matter 
     experience, education, years of experience, certifications, 
     and other qualifications required to be selected into the 
     program, set forth separately for current Department of 
     Defense employees and for personnel hired into the program 
     from outside the Department of Defense.
       (B) A description of hiring flexibilities to be used to 
     recruit qualified personnel from outside the Department of 
     Defense.
       (C) A description of the extent to which mobility 
     agreements will be required to be signed by personnel 
     selected for the program during their participation in the 
     program and after their completion of the program. The use of 
     mobility agreements shall be applied to help maximize the 
     flexibility of the Department of Defense in assigning 
     personnel, while not inhibiting the participation of the most 
     capable candidates.
       (D) A description of the tenure obligation required of 
     personnel selected for the program.
       (E) A plan for training during the course of the program, 
     including training in leadership, program management, 
     engineering, finance and budgeting, market research, business 
     acumen, contracting, supplier management, requirement setting 
     and tradeoffs, intellectual property matters, and software.
       (F) A description of career paths to be followed by 
     personnel in the program in order to ensure that personnel in 
     the program gain expertise in the program management 
     functional career field competencies identified by the 
     Department in existing guidance and the topics listed in 
     subparagraph (E), including--
       (i) a determination of the types of advanced educational 
     degrees that enhance program management skills and the 
     mechanisms available to the Department of Defense to 
     facilitate the attainment of those degrees by personnel in 
     the program;
       (ii) a determination of required assignments to positions 
     within acquisition programs, including position type and 
     acquisition category of the program office;
       (iii) a determination of required or encouraged rotations 
     to career broadening positions outside of acquisition 
     programs; and
       (iv) a determination of how the program will ensure the 
     opportunity for a required rotation to industry of at least 
     six months to develop an understanding of industry motivation 
     and business acumen, such as by developing an industry 
     exchange program for civilian program managers, similar to 
     the Corporate Fellows Program of the Secretary of Defense.
       (G) A general description of the number of personnel 
     anticipated to be selected into the program, how frequently 
     selections will occur, how long personnel selected into the 
     program will participate in the program, and how personnel 
     will be placed into an assignment at the completion of the 
     program.
       (H) A description of benefits that will be offered under 
     the program using existing human capital flexibilities to 
     retain qualified employees, such as student loan repayments.
       (I) An assessment of personnel flexibilities needed to 
     allow the military departments and the Defense Agencies to 
     reassign or remove program managers that do not perform 
     effectively.

[[Page H5574]]

       (J) A description of how the program will be administered 
     and overseen by the Secretaries of each military department, 
     acting through the service acquisition executive for the 
     department concerned.
       (K) A description of how the program will be integrated 
     with existing program manager development efforts at each 
     military department.
       (3) Use of defense acquisition workforce development 
     fund.--Amounts in the Department of Defense Acquisition 
     Workforce Development Fund (established under section 1705 of 
     title 10, United States Code) may be used to pay the base 
     salary of personnel in the program established under 
     paragraph (1) during the period of time such personnel are 
     temporarily assigned to a developmental rotation or training 
     program anticipated to last at least six months.
       (4) Implementation.--The program established under 
     paragraph (1) shall be implemented not later than September 
     30, 2019.
       (b) Independent Study of Incentives for Program Managers.--
       (1) Requirement for study.--Not later than 30 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall enter into a contract with an independent 
     research entity described in paragraph (2) to carry out a 
     comprehensive study of incentives for Department of Defense 
     civilian and military program managers for major defense 
     acquisition programs, including--
       (A) additional pay options for program managers to provide 
     incentives to senior civilian employees and military officers 
     to accept and remain in program manager roles;
       (B) a financial incentive structure to reward program 
     managers for delivering capabilities on budget and on time; 
     and
       (C) a comparison between financial and non-financial 
     incentive structures for program managers in the Department 
     of Defense and an appropriate comparison group of private 
     industry companies.
       (2) Independent research entity.--The entity described in 
     this subsection is an independent research entity that is a 
     not-for-profit entity or a federally funded research and 
     development center with appropriate expertise and analytical 
     capability.
       (3) Reports.--
       (A) To secretary.--Not later than nine months after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the independent research 
     entity shall provide to the Secretary a report containing--
       (i) the results of the study required by paragraph (1); and
       (ii) such recommendations to improve the financial 
     incentive structure of program managers for major defense 
     acquisition programs as the independent research entity 
     considers to be appropriate.
       (B) To congress.--Not later than 30 days after receipt of 
     the report under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit such report, together with any additional views 
     or recommendations of the Secretary, to the congressional 
     defense committees.

     SEC. 822. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE HIRING AND TRAINING OF THE 
                   ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.

       (a) Use of Funds From the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund to Pay Salaries of Personnel to Manage the 
     Fund.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection 1705(e) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``Subject to the provisions 
     of this subsection''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) Amounts in the Fund also may be used to pay salaries 
     of personnel at the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
     military departments, and Defense Agencies to manage the 
     Fund.''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C);
       (ii) by striking the period and inserting ``; and'' at the 
     end of subparagraph (D); and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(E) describing the amount from the Fund that may be used 
     to pay salaries of personnel at the Office of the Secretary 
     of Defense, military departments, and Defense Agencies to 
     manage the Fund and the circumstances under which such 
     amounts may be used for such purpose.''.
       (2) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue, and submit to the congressional defense committees, 
     the policy guidance required by subparagraph (E) of section 
     1705(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) Comptroller General Review of Effectiveness of Hiring 
     and Retention Flexibilities for Acquisition Workforce 
     Personnel.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the 
     effectiveness of hiring and retention flexibilities for the 
     acquisition workforce.
       (2) Elements.--The report under this subsection shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A determination of the extent to which the Department 
     of Defense experiences challenges with recruitment and 
     retention of the acquisition workforce, such as post-
     employment restrictions.
       (B) A description of the hiring and retention flexibilities 
     available to the Department to fill civilian acquisition 
     positions and the extent to which the Department has used the 
     flexibilities available to it to target critical or 
     understaffed career fields.
       (C) A determination of the extent to which the Department 
     has the necessary data on its use of hiring and retention 
     flexibilities for the civilian acquisition workforce to 
     strategically manage the use of such flexibilities.
       (D) An identification of the factors that affect the use of 
     hiring and retention flexibilities for the civilian 
     acquisition workforce.
       (E) Recommendations for any necessary changes to the hiring 
     and retention flexibilities available to the Department to 
     fill civilian acquisition positions.
       (F) A description of the flexibilities available to the 
     Department to remove underperforming members of the 
     acquisition workforce and the extent to which any such 
     flexibilities are used.
       (c) Assessment and Report Required on Business-related 
     Training for the Acquisition Workforce.--
       (1) Assessment.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment shall conduct an assessment of 
     the following:
       (A) The effectiveness of industry certifications and other 
     industry training programs, including fellowships, available 
     to defense acquisition workforce personnel.
       (B) Gaps in knowledge of industry operations, industry 
     motivation, and business acumen in the acquisition workforce.
       (2) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the Under 
     Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
     containing the results of the assessment conducted under this 
     subsection.
       (3) Elements.--The assessment and report under paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) shall address the following:
       (A) Current sources of training and career development 
     opportunities, industry rotations, and other career 
     development opportunities related to knowledge of industry 
     operations, industry motivation, and business acumen for each 
     acquisition position, as designated under section 1721 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (B) Gaps in training, industry rotations, and other career 
     development opportunities related to knowledge of industry 
     operations, industry motivation, and business acumen for each 
     such acquisition position.
       (C) Plans to address those gaps for each such acquisition 
     position.
       (D) Consideration of the role industry-taught classes and 
     classes taught at educational institutions outside of the 
     Defense Acquisition University could play in addressing gaps.
       (d) Comptroller General Review of Acquisition Training for 
     Non-acquisition Workforce Personnel.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on acquisition-
     related training for personnel working on acquisitions but 
     not considered to be part of the acquisition workforce (as 
     defined in section 101(18) of title 10, United States Code) 
     (hereafter in this subsection referred to as ``non-
     acquisition workforce personnel'').
       (2) Elements.--The report shall address the following:
       (A) The extent to which non-acquisition workforce personnel 
     play a significant role in defining requirements, conducting 
     market research, participating in source selection and 
     contract negotiation efforts, and overseeing contract 
     performance.
       (B) The extent to which the Department is able to identify 
     and track non-acquisition workforce personnel performing the 
     roles identified in subparagraph (A).
       (C) The extent to which non-acquisition workforce personnel 
     are taking acquisition training.
       (D) The extent to which the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
     Development Fund has been used to provide acquisition 
     training to non-acquisition workforce personnel.
       (E) A description of sources of funding other than the Fund 
     that are available to and used by the Department to provide 
     non-acquisition workforce personnel with acquisition 
     training.
       (F) The extent to which additional acquisition training is 
     needed for non-acquisition workforce personnel, including the 
     types of training needed, the positions that need the 
     training, and any challenges to delivering necessary 
     additional training.
       (e) Briefing on Improvements to the Defense Contract Audit 
     Agency Workforce.--
       (1) Briefing required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
     Defense Contract Audit Agency, in consultation with the Under 
     Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), shall provide a briefing 
     to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
     House of Representatives.
       (2) Elements.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
     address the following:
       (A) The current education, certifications, and 
     qualifications of the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     workforce, by supervisory and non-supervisory levels and type 
     of position.
       (B) Shortfalls (if any) in education, qualification, or 
     training in the Defense Contract Audit Agency workforce, by 
     supervisory and non-supervisory levels and type of position, 
     and the reasons for those shortfalls.
       (C) The link (if any) between Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     workforce skill and experience gaps and the Agency's backlog 
     of audits.
       (D) The link (if any) between the effectiveness of Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency regional directors and their education, 
     certifications, and qualifications.
       (E) The number of Defense Contract Audit Agency auditors 
     who have relevant private sector experience, including from 
     industry exchanges while at the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
     and from prior employment experiences, and the perspective of 
     the Defense Contract Audit Agency on the benefits of those 
     experiences.
       (F) Ongoing efforts and future plans by the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency to improve the professionalization of 
     its audit workforce, including changes in hiring, training, 
     required

[[Page H5575]]

     certifications or qualifications, compensation structure, and 
     increased opportunities for industry exchanges or rotations.

     SEC. 823. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATIONS TO ACQUISITION 
                   DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

       (a) Extension.--Section 1762(g) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2023''.
       (b) Implementation Strategy for Improvements in Acquisition 
     Demonstration Project.--
       (1) Strategy required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     develop an implementation strategy to address areas for 
     improvement in the demonstration project required by section 
     1762 of title 10, United States Code, as identified in the 
     second assessment of such demonstration project required by 
     section 1762(e) of such title.
       (2) Elements.--The strategy shall include the following 
     elements:
       (A) Actions that have been or will be taken to assess 
     whether the flexibility to set starting salaries at different 
     levels is being used appropriately by supervisors and 
     managers to compete effectively for highly skilled and 
     motivated employees.
       (B) Actions that have been or will be taken to assess 
     reasons for any disparities in career outcomes across race 
     and gender for employees in the demonstration project.
       (C) Actions that have been or will be taken to strengthen 
     the link between employee contribution and compensation for 
     employees in the demonstration project.
       (D) Actions that have been or will be taken to enhance the 
     transparency of the pay system for employees in the 
     demonstration project.
       (E) A time frame and individual responsible for each action 
     identified under subparagraphs (A) through (D).
       (3) Briefing required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the Senate and House of Representatives and the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives on the implementation strategy required by 
     paragraph (1).

     SEC. 824. ACQUISITION POSITIONS IN THE OFFICES OF THE 
                   SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.

       (a) Office of the Secretary of the Army Maximum Number of 
     Personnel.--Section 3014(f) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) The limitation in paragraph (1) may be exceeded if a 
     civilian employee is assigned on permanent duty in the Office 
     of the Secretary of the Army or on the Army Staff and--
       ``(A) the employee was employed immediately preceding that 
     assignment either--
       ``(i) in a position within the Office of the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics that had responsibility for oversight of 
     acquisition programs or processes prior to February 1, 2018, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339) and the 
     amendments made by that section; or
       ``(ii) in a Joint Staff position that supported the Joint 
     Requirements Oversight Council prior to December 23, 2016, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 925 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2359) and the 
     amendments made by that section; and
       ``(B) the position described in subparagraph (A) is not 
     filled by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment or the Joint Staff after the 
     employee's permanent duty assignment.''.
       (b) Office of the Secretary of the Navy Maximum Number of 
     Personnel.--Section 5014(f) of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) The limitation in paragraph (1) may be exceeded if a 
     civilian employee is assigned on permanent duty in the 
     Department of the Navy or assigned or detailed to permanent 
     duty in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office 
     of Chief of Naval Operations, or the Headquarters, Marine 
     Corps, and--
       ``(A) the employee was employed immediately preceding that 
     assignment either--
       ``(i) in a position within the Office of the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics that had responsibility for oversight of 
     acquisition programs or processes prior to February 1, 2018, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339) and the 
     amendments made by that section; or
       ``(ii) in a Joint Staff position that supported the Joint 
     Requirements Oversight Council prior to December 23, 2016, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 925 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2359) and the 
     amendments made by that section; and
       ``(B) the position described in subparagraph (A) is not 
     filled by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment or the Joint Staff after the 
     employee's permanent duty assignment.''.
       (c) Office of the Secretary of the Air Force Maximum Number 
     of Personnel.--Section 8014(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(6) The limitation in paragraph (1) may be exceeded if a 
     civilian employee is assigned on permanent duty in the Office 
     of the Secretary of the Air Force or on the Air Staff and--
       ``(A) the employee was employed immediately preceding that 
     assignment either--
       ``(i) in a position within the Office of the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics that had responsibility for oversight of 
     acquisition programs or processes prior to February 1, 2018, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 901 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339) and the 
     amendments made by that section; or
       ``(ii) in a Joint Staff position that supported the Joint 
     Requirements Oversight Council prior to December 23, 2016, 
     and that was determined to be no longer needed as a result of 
     section 925 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2359) and the 
     amendments made by that section; and
       ``(B) the position described in subparagraph (A) is not 
     filled by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment or the Joint Staff after the 
     employee's permanent duty assignment.''.

                   PART IV--TRANSPARENCY IMPROVEMENTS

     SEC. 831. TRANSPARENCY OF DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEM DATA.

       (a) Establishment of Common Enterprise Data Structures.--
     Section 2222 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(7) Policy requiring that any data contained in a defense 
     business system is an asset of the Department of Defense, and 
     that such data should be made readily available to members of 
     the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, and 
     the military departments (except as otherwise provided by law 
     or regulation).'';
       (2) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(5) Common enterprise data structures.--(A) The defense 
     business enterprise architecture shall include one or more 
     common enterprise data structures which can be used to code 
     data that are automatically extracted from the relevant 
     defense business systems to facilitate Department of Defense-
     wide analysis and management of such data.
       ``(B) The Deputy Chief Management Officer shall--
       ``(i) in consultation with the Defense Business Council 
     established under subsection (f), develop one or more common 
     enterprise data structures and an associated data governance 
     process; and
       ``(ii) have primary decision-making authority with respect 
     to the development of any such common enterprise data 
     structure.
       ``(C) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation shall--
       ``(i) in consultation with the Defense Business Council 
     established under subsection (f), document and maintain any 
     common enterprise data structure developed under subparagraph 
     (B);
       ``(ii) extract data from defense business systems using the 
     appropriate common data enterprise structure on a specified 
     schedule;
       ``(iii) provide access to such data to the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, and the military 
     departments (except as otherwise provided by law or 
     regulation) on a specified schedule developed in consultation 
     with the Defense Business Council established under 
     subsection (f); and
       ``(iv) have primary decision-making authority with respect 
     to the maintenance of any such common enterprise data 
     structure.
       ``(D) Common enterprise data structures shall be 
     established and maintained for the following types of data of 
     the Department of Defense:
       ``(i) An accounting of expenditures of the Department of 
     Defense, set forth separately for each type of expenditure.
       ``(ii) Data from the future-years defense program 
     established under section 221 and budget data.
       ``(iii) Acquisition cost data and earned value management 
     data.
       ``(iv) Operating and support costs for weapon systems, 
     including data on maintenance procedures conducted on each 
     major weapon system (as defined in section 2379 of this 
     title).
       ``(v) Data on contracts and task orders of the Department 
     of Defense, including goods and services acquired under such 
     contracts or task orders and associated obligations and 
     expenditures.
       ``(E) The Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint 
     Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, 
     the Commanders of the combatant commands, the heads of the 
     Defense Agencies, the heads of the Department of Defense 
     Field Activities, and the heads of all other organizations of 
     the Department of Defense shall provide access to the 
     relevant defense business system of such department, 
     combatant command, Defense Agency, Field Activity, or 
     organization, as applicable, and data extracted from such 
     system, for purposes of automatically populating data sets 
     coded with common enterprise data structures.'';
       (3) in subsection (f)(2), by adding at the end the 
     following new clause:
       ``(iv) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation with respect to common enterprise data 
     structures.''; and
       (4) in subsection (i), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraphs:
       ``(10) Common enterprise data structure.--The term `common 
     enterprise data structure' means a mapping and organization 
     of data from defense business systems into a common data set.
       ``(11) Data governance process.--The term `data governance 
     process' means a system to manage the timely Department of 
     Defense-wide sharing of data described under paragraph 
     (5)(A).''.

[[Page H5576]]

       (b) Additional Duties of the Director of Cost Assessment 
     and Program Evaluation.--Section 139a(d) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(9) Maintenance of common enterprise data structures 
     established pursuant to section 2222 of this title, including 
     establishing and maintaining access to any data contained in 
     a defense business system (as defined in such section) and 
     used in a common enterprise data structure, as determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary of Defense or the Director of 
     Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.''.
       (c) Implementation Plan for Common Enterprise Data 
     Structures.--
       (1) Plan required.--Not later than six months after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Chief 
     Management Officer and the Director of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation shall jointly develop a plan to implement 
     the requirements of subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the implementation plan 
     required by paragraph (1) shall include the following 
     elements:
       (A) The major tasks required to implement the requirements 
     of subsection (a) and the recommended time frames for each 
     task.
       (B) The estimated resources required to complete each major 
     task identified pursuant to subparagraph (A).
       (C) Any challenges associated with each major task 
     identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) and related steps to 
     mitigate such challenge.
       (D) A description of how data security issues will be 
     appropriately addressed in the implementation of the 
     requirements of subsection (a).
       (3) Submission to congress.--Upon completion of the plan 
     required under paragraph (1), the Deputy Chief Management 
     Officer and the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation shall submit such plan to the congressional 
     defense committees.

     SEC. 832. MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS: DISPLAY OF 
                   BUDGET INFORMATION.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2433a the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2434. Major defense acquisition programs: display of 
       budget information

       ``(a) In General.--In the defense budget materials for 
     fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent fiscal year, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the funding 
     requirements listed in subsection (b) are displayed 
     separately for major defense acquisition programs, as defined 
     in section 2340 of title 10, United States Code.
       ``(b) Requirements for Budget Display.--The budget 
     justification display for a fiscal year shall include the 
     funding requirement for each major defense acquisition 
     program, including all sources of appropriations--
       ``(1) for developmental test and evaluation;
       ``(2) for operational test and evaluation;
       ``(3) for the purchase of cost data from contractors; and
       ``(4) for the purchase or license of technical data.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `budget' and 
     `defense budget materials' have the meaning given those terms 
     in section 234 of this title.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2433a following new item:

``2434. Major defense acquisition programs: display of budget 
              information.''.

     SEC. 833. ENHANCEMENTS TO TRANSPARENCY IN TEST AND EVALUATION 
                   PROCESSES AND DATA.

       (a) Additional Requirements Relating to Designation of a 
     Major Defense Acquisition Program.--Section 139 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by inserting before the period 
     at the end the following: ``and in accordance with subsection 
     (l).'';
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(l) For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(B), before 
     designating a program that is not a major defense acquisition 
     program for the purposes of section 2430 of this title as a 
     major defense acquisition program for the purposes of this 
     section, the Director shall provide in writing to the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and the 
     test and evaluation executive of the military department or 
     departments executing the program, the specific circumstances 
     of the program that led to the designation decision.''; and
       (3) by adding at the end of subsection (h)(4) the 
     following: ``The report shall also include a brief statement 
     of the rationale for placing on the oversight list of the 
     Director each program that is not a major defense acquisition 
     program for the purposes of section 2430 of this title but 
     has been designated as a major defense acquisition program 
     for the purposes of this section.''.
       (b) Consideration of Legacy Items or Components in 
     Operational Test and Evaluation Reports.--Section 2399(b)(2) 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (A)(ii);
       (2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); 
     and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(B) a description of the performance of the items or 
     components tested in relation to comparable legacy items or 
     components, if such items or components exist and relevant 
     data are available without requiring additional testing; 
     and''.
       (c) Opportunity for Military Department Comments on Annual 
     Report on Operational Test and Evaluation.--Section 139(h) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6), and in 
     that paragraph by striking ``and the Secretaries of the 
     military departments''; and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
     paragraph (5):
       ``(5) Within 45 days after the submission of an annual 
     report by the Director to Congress, the Secretaries of the 
     military departments may each submit a report to the 
     congressional defense committees addressing any concerns 
     related to information included in the annual report, or 
     providing updated or additional information as 
     appropriate.''.
       (d) Guidelines for Collection of Cost Data on Test and 
     Evaluation.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Director of Operational Test 
     and Evaluation and the senior Department of Defense official 
     with responsibility for developmental testing shall jointly 
     develop policies, procedures, guidance, and a collection 
     method to ensure that consistent, high quality data are 
     collected on the full range of estimated and actual 
     developmental, live fire, and operational testing costs for 
     major defense acquisition programs. Data on estimated and 
     actual developmental, live fire, and operational testing 
     costs shall be maintained in an electronic database 
     maintained by the Director for Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation.
       (2) Concurrence and coordination.--In carrying out 
     paragraph (1), the Director of Operational Test and 
     Evaluation and the senior Department of Defense official with 
     responsibility for developmental testing shall obtain the 
     concurrence of the Director for Cost Assessment and Program 
     Evaluation and shall coordinate with the Director of the Test 
     Resource Management Center and the Secretaries of the 
     military departments.
       (3) Major defense acquisition program defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``major defense acquisition program'' has 
     the meaning provided in section 2430 of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       (e) Report on Enterprise Approach to Test and Evaluation 
     Knowledge Management.--
       (1) Report required.--Within one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the Test Resource 
     Management Center and the senior Department of Defense 
     official with responsibility for developmental testing shall 
     provide to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the development of an approach for managing test and 
     evaluation knowledge across the entire Department of Defense.
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following elements:
       (A) The detailed concepts, requirements, technologies, 
     methodologies, and architecture necessary for an enterprise 
     approach to knowledge management for test and evaluation, 
     including data, data analysis tools, and modeling and 
     simulation capabilities.
       (B) Resources needed to develop and adopt an enterprise 
     approach to knowledge management for test and evaluation.
       (C) Roles and responsibilities of various Department of 
     Defense entities to develop and adopt an enterprise approach 
     to knowledge management for test and evaluation.
       (D) Time frames required to develop and adopt an enterprise 
     approach to knowledge management for test and evaluation.
       (E) A description of pilot studies ongoing at the time of 
     the date of the enactment of this Act or previously conducted 
     related to developing an enterprise approach to test and 
     evaluation knowledge management, including results of the 
     pilot studies (if available) and lessons learned.

     Subtitle B--Streamlining of Defense Acquisition Statutes and 
                              Regulations

     SEC. 841. MODIFICATIONS TO THE ADVISORY PANEL ON STREAMLINING 
                   AND CODIFYING ACQUISITION REGULATIONS.

       (a) Extension of Date for Final Report.--
       (1) Transmittal of panel final report.--Subsection (e)(1) 
     of section 809 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 889), as 
     amended by section 863(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2303), is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Not later than two years after the date 
     on which the Secretary of Defense establishes the advisory 
     panel'' and inserting ``Not later than January 15, 2019''; 
     and
       (B) by striking ``the Secretary'' and inserting ``the 
     Secretary of Defense and the congressional defense 
     committees''.
       (2) Secretary of defense action on final report.--
     Subsection (e)(4) of such section is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Not later than 30 days'' and inserting 
     ``Not later than 60 days''; and
       (B) by striking ``the final report, together with such 
     comments as the Secretary determines appropriate,'' and 
     inserting ``such comments as the Secretary determines 
     appropriate''.
       (b) Termination of Panel.--Such section is further amended 
     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Termination of Panel.--The advisory panel shall 
     terminate 180 days after the date on which the final report 
     of the panel is transmitted pursuant to subsection (e)(1) or 
     on such later date as may be specified by the Secretary of 
     Defense.''.

     SEC. 842. EXTENSION OF MAXIMUM DURATION OF FUEL STORAGE 
                   CONTRACTS.

       (a) Extension.--Section 2922(b) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``20 years'' and inserting ``30 
     years''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply with respect to contracts entered into on or 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act and may be 
     applied to a contract entered into before that date if the 
     total contract period under the contract (including options) 
     has not expired as of the date of any extension of such 
     contract period by reason of such amendment.

[[Page H5577]]

  


     SEC. 843. EXCEPTION FOR BUSINESS OPERATIONS FROM REQUIREMENT 
                   TO ACCEPT $1 COINS.

       Paragraph (1) of section 5112(p) of title 31, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new flush 
     sentence:
     ``This paragraph does not apply with respect to business 
     operations conducted by any entity under a contract with an 
     agency or instrumentality of the United States, including any 
     nonappropriated fund instrumentality established under title 
     10, United States Code.''.

     SEC. 844. REPEAL OF EXPIRED PILOT PROGRAM.

       Section 807(c) of Public Law 104-106 (10 U.S.C. 2401a note) 
     is repealed.

Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

     SEC. 851. LIMITATION ON UNILATERAL DEFINITIZATION.

       (a) Limitation.--Section 2326 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), 
     (h), and (i) as subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and 
     (j) respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection (c):
       ``(c) Limitation on Unilateral Definitization by 
     Contracting Officer.--With respect to any undefinitized 
     contractual action with a value greater than $1,000,000,000, 
     if agreement is not reached on contractual terms, 
     specifications, and price within the period or by the date 
     provided in subsection (b)(1), the contracting officer may 
     not unilaterally definitize those terms, specifications, or 
     price over the objection of the contractor until--
       ``(1) the head of the agency approves the definitization in 
     writing;
       ``(2) the contracting officer provides a copy of the 
     written approval to the contractor; and
       ``(3) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed after the 
     written approval is provided to the contractor.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2326(b)(3) of such title 
     is amended by striking ``subsection (g)'' and inserting 
     ``subsection (h)''.
       (c) Conforming Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to 
     the Federal Acquisition Regulation to implement section 2326 
     of title 10, United States Code, as amended by this section.

     SEC. 852. CODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO 
                   ASSESSMENT, MANAGEMENT, AND CONTROL OF 
                   OPERATING AND SUPPORT COSTS FOR MAJOR WEAPON 
                   SYSTEMS.

       (a) Codification and Amendment.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2337 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2337a. Assessment, management, and control of 
       operating and support costs for major weapon systems

       ``(a) Guidance Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     issue and maintain guidance on actions to be taken to assess, 
     manage, and control Department of Defense costs for the 
     operation and support of major weapon systems.
       ``(b) Elements.--The guidance required by subsection (a) 
     shall, at a minimum--
       ``(1) be issued in conjunction with the comprehensive 
     guidance on life-cycle management and the development and 
     implementation of product support strategies for major weapon 
     systems required by section 2337 of this title;
       ``(2) require the military departments to retain each 
     estimate of operating and support costs that is developed at 
     any time during the life cycle of a major weapon system, 
     together with supporting documentation used to develop the 
     estimate;
       ``(3) require the military departments to update estimates 
     of operating and support costs periodically throughout the 
     life cycle of a major weapon system, to determine whether 
     preliminary information and assumptions remain relevant and 
     accurate, and identify and record reasons for variances;
       ``(4) establish policies and procedures for the collection, 
     organization, maintenance, and availability of standardized 
     data on operating and support costs for major weapon systems 
     in accordance with section 2222 of this title;
       ``(5) establish standard requirements for the collection 
     and reporting of data on operating and support costs for 
     major weapon systems by contractors performing weapon system 
     sustainment functions in an appropriate format, and develop 
     contract clauses to ensure that contractors comply with such 
     requirements;
       ``(6) require the military departments--
       ``(A) to collect and retain data from operational and 
     developmental testing and evaluation on the reliability and 
     maintainability of major weapon systems; and
       ``(B) to use such data to inform system design decisions, 
     provide insight into sustainment costs, and inform estimates 
     of operating and support costs for such systems;
       ``(7) require the military departments to ensure that 
     sustainment factors are fully considered at key life cycle 
     management decision points and that appropriate measures are 
     taken to reduce operating and support costs by influencing 
     system design early in development, developing sound 
     sustainment strategies, and addressing key drivers of costs;
       ``(8) require the military departments to conduct an 
     independent logistics assessment of each major weapon system 
     prior to key acquisition decision points (including milestone 
     decisions) to identify features that are likely to drive 
     future operating and support costs, changes to system design 
     that could reduce such costs, and effective strategies for 
     managing such costs;
       ``(9) include--
       ``(A) reliability metrics for major weapon systems; and
       ``(B) requirements on the use of metrics under subparagraph 
     (A) as triggers--
       ``(i) to conduct further investigation and analysis into 
     drivers of those metrics; and
       ``(ii) to develop strategies for improving reliability, 
     availability, and maintainability of such systems at an 
     affordable cost; and
       ``(10) require the military departments to conduct periodic 
     reviews of operating and support costs of major weapon 
     systems after such systems achieve initial operational 
     capability to identify and address factors resulting in 
     growth in operating and support costs and adapt support 
     strategies to reduce such costs.
       ``(c) Retention of Data on Operating and Support Costs.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation shall be responsible for developing and 
     maintaining a database on operating and support estimates, 
     supporting documentation, and actual operating and support 
     costs for major weapon systems.
       ``(2) Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
     the Director, in carrying out such responsibility--
       ``(A) promptly receives the results of all cost estimates 
     and cost analyses conducted by the military departments with 
     regard to operating and support costs of major weapon 
     systems;
       ``(B) has timely access to any records and data of the 
     military departments (including classified and proprietary 
     information) that the Director considers necessary to carry 
     out such responsibility; and
       ``(C) with the concurrence of the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, may direct the 
     military departments to collect and retain information 
     necessary to support the database.
       ``(d) Major Weapon System Defined.--In this section, the 
     term `major weapon system' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 2379(f) of title 10, United States Code.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 137 of such title is amended by adding 
     after the item relating to section 2337 the following new 
     item:

``2337a. Assessment, management, and control of operating and support 
              costs for major weapon systems.''.
       (b) Repeal of Superseded Section.--
       (1) Repeal.--Section 832 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 
     U.S.C. 2430 note) is repealed.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 2441(c) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``section 2337 of 
     this title'' and all that follows through the period and 
     inserting ``sections 2337 and 2337a of this title.''.

     SEC. 853. USE OF PROGRAM INCOME BY ELIGIBLE ENTITIES THAT 
                   CARRY OUT PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
                   PROGRAMS.

       Section 2414 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``LIMITATION'' and 
     inserting ``1FUNDING''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Use of Program Income.--
       ``(1) An eligible entity that earned income in a specified 
     fiscal year from activities carried out pursuant to a 
     procurement technical assistance program funded under this 
     chapter may expend an amount of such income not to exceed 25 
     percent of the cost of furnishing procurement technical 
     assistance in such specified fiscal year, during the fiscal 
     year following the specified fiscal year, to carry out a 
     procurement technical assistance program funded under this 
     chapter.
       ``(2) An eligible entity that does not enter into a 
     cooperative agreement with the Secretary for a fiscal year--
       ``(A) shall notify the Secretary of the amount of any 
     income the eligible entity carried over from the previous 
     fiscal year; and
       ``(B) may retain an amount of such income equal to 10 
     percent of the value of assistance furnished by the Secretary 
     under this section during the previous fiscal year.
       ``(3) In determining the value of assistance furnished by 
     the Secretary under this section for any fiscal year, the 
     Secretary shall account for the amount of any income the 
     eligible entity carried over from the previous fiscal 
     year.''.

     SEC. 854. AMENDMENT TO SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.

       Section 2441(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following: ``The Secretary concerned 
     shall make the memorandum and supporting documentation for 
     each sustainment review available to the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment within 30 days after 
     the review is completed.''.

     SEC. 855. CLARIFICATION TO OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY.

       (a) Clarification to Requirement for Written Determinations 
     for Prototype Projects.--Section 2371b(a)(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``for a prototype 
     project'' each place such term appears and inserting ``for a 
     transaction (for a prototype project)''.
       (b) Clarification of Inclusion of Small Businesses 
     Participating in SBIR or STTR.--Section 2371b(d)(1)(B) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     ``(including small businesses participating in a program 
     described under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 638))'' after ``small businesses''.

     SEC. 856. CLARIFYING THE USE OF LOWEST PRICE TECHNICALLY 
                   ACCEPTABLE SOURCE SELECTION PROCESS.

       Section 813 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2270; 10 
     U.S.C. 2305 note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;

[[Page H5578]]

       (B) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(7) the Department of Defense would realize minimal or no 
     additional innovation or future technological advantage; and
       ``(8) with respect to a contract for procurement of goods, 
     the goods procured are predominately expendable in nature, 
     nontechnical, or have a short life expectancy or short shelf 
     life.''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; or''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) electronic test and measurement equipment for which 
     calibration or repair costs are expected to substantially 
     affect full life-cycle costs.''.

     SEC. 857. AMENDMENT TO NONTRADITIONAL AND SMALL CONTRACTOR 
                   INNOVATION PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.

       Section 884(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2318; 10 
     U.S.C.2301 note) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new 
     paragraph (9):
       ``(9) Unmanned ground logistics and unmanned air logistics 
     capabilities enhancement.''.

     SEC. 858. MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL MEETING REQUIREMENT OF 
                   CONFIGURATION STEERING BOARDS.

       Section 814(c)(4) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4529; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended by striking 
     ``year.'' and inserting ``year, unless the senior acquisition 
     executive of the military department concerned determines in 
     writing that there have been no changes to the program 
     requirements of a major defense acquisition program during 
     the preceding year.''.

     SEC. 859. CHANGE TO DEFINITION OF SUBCONTRACT IN CERTAIN 
                   CIRCUMSTANCES.

       Section 1906(c)(1) of title 41, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following: ``The term does 
     not include agreements entered into by a contractor for the 
     supply of commodities that are intended for use in the 
     performance of multiple contracts with the Government and 
     other parties and are not identifiable to any particular 
     contract.''.

     SEC. 860. AMENDMENT RELATING TO APPLICABILITY OF INFLATION 
                   ADJUSTMENTS.

       Subsection 1908(d) of title 41, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, and shall apply, in the case of the 
     procurement of property or services by contract, to a 
     contract, and any subcontract at any tier under the contract, 
     in effect on that date without regard to the date of award of 
     the contract or subcontract.''.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

     SEC. 861. EXEMPTION FROM DESIGN-BUILD SELECTION PROCEDURES.

       Subsection (d) of section 2305a of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking the second and third sentences 
     and inserting the following: ``If the contract value exceeds 
     $4,000,000, the maximum number specified in the solicitation 
     shall not exceed 5 unless--
       ``(1) the solicitation is issued pursuant to a indefinite 
     delivery-indefinite quantity contract for design-build 
     construction; or
       ``(2)(A) the head of the contracting activity, delegable to 
     a level no lower than the senior contracting official within 
     the contracting activity, approves the contracting officer's 
     justification with respect to an individual solicitation that 
     a number greater than 5 is in the Federal Government's 
     interest; and
       ``(B) the contracting officer shall provide written 
     documentation of how a maximum number exceeding 5 is 
     consistent with the purposes and objectives of the two-phase 
     selection procedures.''.

     SEC. 862. REQUIREMENT THAT CERTAIN SHIP COMPONENTS BE 
                   MANUFACTURED IN THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND 
                   INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       (a) Additional Procurement Limitation.--Section 2534(a) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(6) Components for auxiliary ships.--Subject to 
     subsection (k), the following components:
       ``(A) Auxiliary equipment, including pumps, for all 
     shipboard services.
       ``(B) Propulsion system components, including engines, 
     reduction gears, and propellers.
       ``(C) Shipboard cranes.
       ``(D) Spreaders for shipboard cranes.''.
       (b) Implementation.--Such section is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(k) Implementation of Auxiliary Ship Component 
     Limitation.--Subsection (a)(6) applies only with respect to 
     contracts awarded by the Secretary of a military department 
     for new construction of an auxiliary ship after the date of 
     the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2018 using funds available for National Defense 
     Sealift Fund programs or Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
     Navy.''.

     SEC. 863. PROCUREMENT OF AVIATION CRITICAL SAFETY ITEMS.

       Section 814(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2271; 10 
     U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by inserting ``or an aviation critical safety item (as 
     defined in section 2319(g) of this title)'' after ``personal 
     protective equipment''; and
       (B) by inserting ``equipment or'' after ``failure of the''; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or item'' after 
     ``equipment''.

     SEC. 864. MILESTONES AND TIMELINES FOR CONTRACTS FOR FOREIGN 
                   MILITARY SALES.

       (a) Establishment of Standard Timelines for Foreign 
     Military Sales.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     specific milestones and standard timelines to achieve such 
     milestones for a foreign military sale (as authorized under 
     chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761 et 
     seq.)), including milestones and timelines for actions that 
     occur after a letter of offer and acceptance (as described in 
     chapter 5 of the Security Assistance Management Manual of the 
     Defense Security Cooperation Agency) for such foreign 
     military sale is completed. Such milestones and timelines--
       (1) may vary depending on the complexity of the foreign 
     military sale; and
       (2) shall cover the period beginning on the date of receipt 
     of a complete letter of request (as described in such chapter 
     5) from a foreign country and ending on the date of the final 
     delivery of a defense article or defense service sold through 
     the foreign military sale.
       (b) Submissions to Congress.--
       (1) Quarterly notification.--During the period beginning on 
     the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on December 
     31, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
     House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations of the Senate, on a quarterly basis, a report that 
     includes a list of each foreign military sale with a value 
     greater than or equal to the dollar threshold for 
     congressional notification under section 36 of the Arms 
     Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776)--
       (A) for which the final delivery of a defense article or 
     defense service has not been completed; and
       (B) that failed to meet a standard timeline to achieve a 
     milestone as established under subsection (a).
       (2) Annual report.--Not later than November 1, 2019, and 
     annually thereafter until December 31, 2021, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the committees described in paragraph (1) a 
     report that summarizes--
       (A) the number, set forth separately by dollar value and 
     milestone, of foreign military sales that met the standard 
     timeline to achieve a milestone established under subsection 
     (a) during the preceding fiscal year; and
       (B) the number, set forth separately by dollar value, 
     milestone, and case development extenuating factor, of 
     foreign military sales that failed to meet the standard 
     timeline to achieve a milestone established under subsection 
     (a).
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Defense article; defense service.--The terms ``defense 
     article'' and ``defense service'' have the meanings given 
     those terms, respectively, in section 47 of the Arms Export 
     Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794).
       (2) Case development extenuating factor.--The term ``case 
     development extenuating factor'' means a reason from a list 
     of reasons developed by the Secretary (such as a change in 
     requirements, delay in performance, or failure to receive 
     funding) for the failure of a foreign military sale to meet a 
     standard timeline to achieve a milestone established under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 865. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN CONTRACTS FOR 
                   AUDIT SERVICES.

       (a) Notification to Congress.--If the Under Secretary of 
     Defense (Comptroller) makes a written finding that a delay in 
     performance of a covered contract while a protest is pending 
     would hinder the annual preparation of audited financial 
     statements for the Department of Defense, and the head of the 
     procuring activity responsible for the award of the covered 
     contract does not authorize the award of the contract 
     (pursuant to section 3553(c)(2) of title 31, United States 
     Code) or the performance of the contract (pursuant to section 
     3553(d)(3)(C) of such title), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall--
       (1) notify the congressional defense committees within 10 
     days after such finding is made; and
       (2) describe any steps the Department of Defense plans to 
     take to mitigate any hindrance identified in such finding to 
     the annual preparation of audited financial statements for 
     the Department.
       (b) Covered Contract Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered contract'' means a contract for services to perform 
     an audit to comply with the requirements of section 3515 of 
     title 31, United States Code.

     SEC. 866. TRAINING IN ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS.

       (a) Training.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President of the Defense 
     Acquisition University shall establish a comprehensive 
     training program on the acquisition of commercial items, 
     including part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. The 
     curriculum shall include, at a minimum, the following:
       (1) The reasons for and appropriate uses of part 12 of the 
     Federal Acquisition Regulation, including the preference for 
     the acquisition of commercial items under section 2377 of 
     title 10, United States Code.
       (2) The definition of a commercial item, including the 
     interpretation of the phrase ``of a type''.
       (3) Price analysis and negotiations.
       (4) Market research and analysis.
       (5) Independent cost estimates.
       (6) Parametric estimating methods.
       (7) Value analysis.
       (8) Other topics on the acquisition of commercial items 
     necessary to ensure a well-educated acquisition workforce.
       (b) Student Enrollment.--The President of the Defense 
     Acquisition University shall set

[[Page H5579]]

     goals for student enrollment for the training program 
     established under subsection (a).

     SEC. 867. NOTICE OF COST-FREE FEDERAL PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION WITH REGISTRATION OF 
                   SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS ON PROCUREMENT WEBSITES 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     procedures to ensure that any notice or direct communication 
     regarding the registration of a small business concern on a 
     website maintained by the Department of Defense relating to 
     contracting opportunities contains information about cost-
     free Federal procurement technical assistance services that 
     are available through a procurement technical assistance 
     program established under chapter 142 of title 10, United 
     States Code.
       (b) Small Business Concern Defined.--The term ``small 
     business concern'' has the meaning given such term under 
     section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

     SEC. 868. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON CONTRACTOR BUSINESS 
                   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the feasibility and effects of an increase to the percentage 
     of total gross revenue included in the definition of the term 
     ``covered contractor'' in section 893(g)(2) of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note). Such report 
     shall include--
       (1) an assessment of the effects of the amendment to such 
     definition made by subsection (c) of section 893 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328); and
       (2) the feasibility and effects of a subsequent increase to 
     the percentage of total gross revenue included in such 
     definition.

     SEC. 869. STANDARD GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATION OF REQUIREMENTS 
                   FOR SERVICES CONTRACTS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall encourage 
     the use of standard guidelines within the Department of 
     Defense for the evaluation of requirements for services 
     contracts. Such guidelines shall be available to the Services 
     Requirements Review Boards (established under Department of 
     Defense Instruction 5000.74, titled ``Defense Acquisition of 
     Services'' and dated January 5, 2016, or a successor 
     instruction) within each Defense Agency, each Department of 
     Defense Field Activity, and each military department for the 
     purpose of standardizing the requirements evaluation required 
     under section 2329 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
     by this Act. Such guidelines may provide policy guidance or 
     tools, including a comprehensive checklist of total force 
     management policies and procedures that is modeled after the 
     checklist used by the Army, to aid uniform decision-making 
     during the requirements evaluation process.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the terms ``Defense Agency'', ``Department of Defense 
     Field Activity'', and ``military department'' have the 
     meanings given those terms in section 101 of title 10, United 
     States Code; and
       (2) the term ``total force management policies and 
     procedures'' means the policies and procedures established 
     under section 129a of such title.

     SEC. 870. TEMPORARY LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE ANNUAL AMOUNT 
                   AVAILABLE FOR CONTRACT SERVICES.

       (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
     total amount obligated by the Department of Defense for 
     contract services in fiscal year 2018 may not exceed the 
     total amount requested for the Department for contract 
     services in the budget of the President for fiscal year 2010 
     (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of 
     title 31, United States Code) adjusted for net transfers from 
     funding for overseas contingency operations.
       (b) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Contract services.--The term ``contract services'' has 
     the meaning given that term in section 235 of title 10, 
     United States Code, except that the term does not include 
     services that are funded out of amounts available for 
     overseas contingency operations.
       (2) Transfers from funding for overseas contingency 
     operations.--The term ``transfers from funding for overseas 
     contingency operations'' means amounts funded out of amounts 
     available for overseas contingency operations in fiscal year 
     2010 that are funded out of amounts other than amounts so 
     available in fiscal year 2018.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

 Subtitle A--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                               Generally

     SEC. 901. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF 
                   THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR RISK MANAGEMENT 
                   ACTIVITIES REGARDING SUPPLY CHAIN FOR 
                   INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS.

       Section 142(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(J) has the responsibilities for policy, oversight, 
     guidance, and coordination for risk management activities for 
     the Department regarding the supply chain for information 
     technology systems.''.

     SEC. 902. REPEAL OF OFFICE OF CORROSION POLICY AND OVERSIGHT.

       (a) Repeal.--Section 2228 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is repealed.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 131 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 2228.

     SEC. 903. DESIGNATION OF CORROSION CONTROL AND PREVENTION 
                   EXECUTIVES FOR THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.

       (a) Department of the Army.--
       (1) Designation.--Chapter 303 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 3025. Corrosion control and prevention executive

       ``(a) Designation.--(1) There is a corrosion control and 
     prevention executive in the Department of the Army. The 
     Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, 
     and Logistics shall designate the corrosion control and 
     prevention executive.
       ``(2) In addition to the duties assigned under subsection 
     (c), the principal responsibility of the civilian employee 
     designated as the corrosion control and prevention executive 
     shall be coordinating Department of the Army corrosion 
     control and prevention program activities (including budget 
     programming) with the Department and the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, the program executive officers of the 
     Department, and relevant major subordinate commands of the 
     Department.
       ``(3) The corrosion control and prevention executive shall 
     be a civilian employee of the Department in the grade GS-15 
     or higher of the General Schedule.
       ``(b) Qualifications.--In order to qualify for designation 
     as the corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department of the Army, an individual shall, at a minimum--
       ``(1) have a working knowledge of corrosion prevention and 
     control;
       ``(2) have strong program management and communication 
     skills; and
       ``(3) understand the acquisition, research and development, 
     test and evaluation, and sustainment policies and procedures 
     across the Department, including sustainment of 
     infrastructure.
       ``(c) Duties.--(1) The corrosion control and prevention 
     executive in the Department of the Army shall ensure that 
     corrosion control and prevention is maintained in the 
     Department's policy and guidance for management of each of 
     the following:
       ``(A) System acquisition and production, including design 
     and maintenance.
       ``(B) Research, development, test, and evaluation programs 
     and activities.
       ``(C) Equipment standardization programs, including 
     international standardization agreements.
       ``(D) Logistics research and development initiatives.
       ``(E) Logistics support analysis as it relates to 
     integrated logistic support in the materiel acquisition 
     process.
       ``(F) Military infrastructure design, construction, and 
     maintenance.
       ``(2) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall be responsible for identifying the funding 
     levels necessary to accomplish the items specified in 
     paragraph (1).
       ``(3) In cooperation with the appropriate staff of the 
     Department, the corrosion control and prevention executive in 
     the Department shall, develop, support, and provide the 
     rationale for resources--
       ``(A) to initiate and sustain an effective corrosion 
     control and prevention program in the Department;
       ``(B) to evaluate the program's effectiveness; and
       ``(C) to ensure that corrosion control and prevention 
     requirements for materiel are reflected in budgeting and 
     policies of the Department for the formulation, management, 
     and evaluation of personnel and programs for the entire 
     Department, including the Army Reserve and the Army National 
     Guard.
       ``(4) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall submit an annual report, not later than 
     December 31 of each year, to the Secretary of the Army and 
     the Secretary of Defense containing recommendations 
     pertaining to the corrosion control and prevention program of 
     the Department, including corrosion-related funding levels to 
     carry out all of the duties of the executive under this 
     section.
       ``(5) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department may not be assigned other duties that may 
     interfere with the duties specified in this subsection and 
     the principal responsibility assigned under subsection 
     (a)(2).''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 303 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``3025. Corrosion control and prevention executive.''.
       (b) Department of the Navy.--
       (1) Designation.--Chapter 503 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 5029. Corrosion control and prevention executive

       ``(a) Designation.--(1) There is a corrosion control and 
     prevention executive in the Department of the Navy. The 
     Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, 
     and Acquisition shall designate the corrosion control and 
     prevention executive.
       ``(2) In addition to the duties assigned under subsection 
     (c), the principal responsibility of the civilian employee 
     designated as the corrosion control and prevention executive 
     shall be coordinating Department of the Navy corrosion 
     control and prevention program activities (including budget 
     programming) with the Department and the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, the program executive officers of the 
     Department,

[[Page H5580]]

     and relevant major subordinate commands of the Department.
       ``(3) The corrosion control and prevention executive shall 
     be a civilian employee of the Department in the grade GS-15 
     or higher of the General Schedule.
       ``(b) Qualifications.--In order to qualify for designation 
     as the corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department of the Navy, an individual shall, at a minimum--
       ``(1) have a working knowledge of corrosion prevention and 
     control;
       ``(2) have strong program management and communication 
     skills; and
       ``(3) understand the acquisition, research and development, 
     test and evaluation, and sustainment policies and procedures 
     across the Department, including sustainment of 
     infrastructure.
       ``(c) Duties.--(1) The corrosion control and prevention 
     executive in the Department of the Navy shall ensure that 
     corrosion control and prevention is maintained in the 
     Department's policy and guidance for management of each of 
     the following:
       ``(A) System acquisition and production, including design 
     and maintenance.
       ``(B) Research, development, test, and evaluation programs 
     and activities.
       ``(C) Equipment standardization programs, including 
     international standardization agreements.
       ``(D) Logistics research and development initiatives.
       ``(E) Logistics support analysis as it relates to 
     integrated logistic support in the materiel acquisition 
     process.
       ``(F) Military infrastructure design, construction, and 
     maintenance.
       ``(2) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall be responsible for identifying the funding 
     levels necessary to accomplish the items specified in 
     paragraph (1).
       ``(3) In cooperation with the appropriate staff of the 
     Department, the corrosion control and prevention executive in 
     the Department shall, develop, support, and provide the 
     rationale for resources--
       ``(A) to initiate and sustain an effective corrosion 
     control and prevention program in the Department;
       ``(B) to evaluate the program's effectiveness; and
       ``(C) to ensure that corrosion control and prevention 
     requirements for materiel are reflected in budgeting and 
     policies of the Department for the formulation, management, 
     and evaluation of personnel and programs for the entire 
     Department, including the Navy Reserve and the Marine Corps 
     Reserve.
       ``(4) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall submit an annual report, not later than 
     December 31 of each year, to the Secretary of the Navy and 
     the Secretary of Defense containing recommendations 
     pertaining to the corrosion control and prevention program of 
     the Department, including corrosion-related funding levels to 
     carry out all of the duties of the executive under this 
     section.
       ``(5) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department may not be assigned other duties that may 
     interfere with the duties specified in this subsection and 
     the principal responsibility assigned under subsection 
     (a)(2).''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 503 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``5029. Corrosion control and prevention executive.''.
       (c) Department of the Air Force.--
       (1) Designation.--Chapter 803 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 8025. Corrosion control and prevention executive

       ``(a) Designation.--(1) There is a corrosion control and 
     prevention executive in the Department of the Air Force. The 
     Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, 
     Technology, and Logistics shall designate the corrosion 
     control and prevention executive.
       ``(2) In addition to the duties assigned under subsection 
     (c), the principal responsibility of the civilian employee 
     designated as the corrosion control and prevention executive 
     shall be coordinating Department of the Air Force corrosion 
     control and prevention program activities (including budget 
     programming) with the Department and the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, the program executive officers of the 
     Department, and relevant major subordinate commands of the 
     Department.
       ``(3) The corrosion control and prevention executive shall 
     be a civilian employee of the Department in the grade GS-15 
     or higher of the General Schedule.
       ``(b) Qualifications.--In order to qualify for designation 
     as the corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department of the Air Force, an individual shall, at a 
     minimum--
       ``(1) have a working knowledge of corrosion prevention and 
     control;
       ``(2) have strong program management and communication 
     skills; and
       ``(3) understand the acquisition, research and development, 
     test and evaluation, and sustainment policies and procedures 
     across the Department, including sustainment of 
     infrastructure.
       ``(c) Duties.--(1) The corrosion control and prevention 
     executive in the Department of the Air Force shall ensure 
     that corrosion control and prevention is maintained in the 
     Department's policy and guidance for management of each of 
     the following:
       ``(A) System acquisition and production, including design 
     and maintenance.
       ``(B) Research, development, test, and evaluation programs 
     and activities.
       ``(C) Equipment standardization programs, including 
     international standardization agreements.
       ``(D) Logistics research and development initiatives.
       ``(E) Logistics support analysis as it relates to 
     integrated logistic support in the materiel acquisition 
     process.
       ``(F) Military infrastructure design, construction, and 
     maintenance.
       ``(2) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall be responsible for identifying the funding 
     levels necessary to accomplish the items specified in 
     paragraph (1).
       ``(3) In cooperation with the appropriate staff of the 
     Department, the corrosion control and prevention executive in 
     the Department shall, develop, support, and provide the 
     rationale for resources--
       ``(A) to initiate and sustain an effective corrosion 
     control and prevention program in the Department;
       ``(B) to evaluate the program's effectiveness; and
       ``(C) to ensure that corrosion control and prevention 
     requirements for materiel are reflected in budgeting and 
     policies of the Department for the formulation, management, 
     and evaluation of personnel and programs for the entire 
     Department, including the Air Force Reserve and the Air 
     National Guard.
       ``(4) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department shall submit an annual report, not later than 
     December 31 of each year, to the Secretary of the Air Force 
     and the Secretary of Defense containing recommendations 
     pertaining to the corrosion control and prevention program of 
     the Department, including corrosion-related funding levels to 
     carry out all of the duties of the executive under this 
     section.
       ``(5) The corrosion control and prevention executive in the 
     Department may not be assigned other duties that may 
     interfere with the duties specified in this subsection and 
     the principal responsibility assigned under subsection 
     (a)(2).''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 803 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``8025. Corrosion control and prevention executive.''.
       (d) Repeal of Replaced Provision.--Effective 90 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, section 903 of the 
     Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2009 (Public Law 110-117; 10 U.S.C. 2228 note) is 
     repealed.
       (e) Deadline for Designation.--Corrosion control and 
     prevention executives who satisfy the qualifications 
     specified in subsection (b) of sections 3025, 5029, and 8025 
     of title 10, United States Code, as added by this section, 
     shall be designated not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 904. MAINTAINING CIVILIAN WORKFORCE CAPABILITIES TO 
                   SUSTAIN READINESS, THE ALL VOLUNTEER FORCE, AND 
                   OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS.

       Section 912(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(D) The minimum civilian end strength specified in 
     section 691 of title 10, United States Code, needed to 
     support the national military strategy.
       ``(E) A civilian operating force structure sized for 
     operational effectiveness, that is manned, equipped and 
     trained to support deployment time and rotation ratios sized 
     to sustain the readiness and needed retention levels for the 
     regular and reserve components according to the judgment of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff in fulfillment of their 
     responsibilities under sections 151, 3033, 5033, 8033 and 
     5044 of title 10, United States Code.
       ``(F) The development of civilian workforce levels to 
     ensure that every proposal to change military force structure 
     is accompanied with the associated civilian force structure 
     changes needed to support that military force structure.
       ``(G) The hiring authorities and other actions that the 
     Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the military 
     department will take to eliminate any gaps between desired 
     programmed civilian workforce levels and the existing size of 
     the civilian workforce by mission and functional area.
       ``(H) A civilian workforce plan that is consistent with the 
     total force management requirements of sections 129 and 129a 
     of title 10, United States Code.''.

          Subtitle B--Designation of the Navy and Marine Corps

     SEC. 911. REDESIGNATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AS THE 
                   DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS.

       (a) Redesignation of Military Department.--The military 
     department designated as the Department of the Navy is 
     redesignated as the Department of the Navy and Marine Corps.
       (b) Redesignation of Secretary and Other Statutory 
     Offices.--
       (1) Secretary.--The position of the Secretary of the Navy 
     is redesignated as the Secretary of the Navy and Marine 
     Corps.
       (2) Other statutory offices.--The positions of the Under 
     Secretary of the Navy, the four Assistant Secretaries of the 
     Navy, and the General Counsel of the Department of the Navy 
     are redesignated as the Under Secretary of the Navy and 
     Marine Corps, the Assistant Secretaries of the Navy and 
     Marine Corps, and the General Counsel of the Department of 
     the Navy and Marine Corps, respectively.

     SEC. 912. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 10, UNITED STATES 
                   CODE.

       (a) Definition of ``Military Department''.--Paragraph (8) 
     of section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     to read as follows:
       ``(8) The term `military department' means the Department 
     of the Army, the Department of the

[[Page H5581]]

     Navy and Marine Corps, and the Department of the Air 
     Force.''.
       (b) Organization of Department.--The text of section 5011 
     of such title is amended to read as follows: ``The Department 
     of the Navy and Marine Corps is separately organized under 
     the Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps.''.
       (c) Position of Secretary.--Section 5013(a)(1) of such 
     title is amended by striking ``There is a Secretary of the 
     Navy'' and inserting ``There is a Secretary of the Navy and 
     Marine Corps''.
       (d) Chapter Headings.--
       (1) The heading of chapter 503 of such title is amended to 
     read as follows:

       ``CHAPTER 503--DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS''.

       (2) The heading of chapter 507 of such title is amended to 
     read as follows:

  ``CHAPTER 507--COMPOSITION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE 
                                CORPS''.

       (e) Other Amendments.--
       (1) Title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
     ``Department of the Navy'' and ``Secretary of the Navy'' each 
     place they appear other than as specified in subsections (a), 
     (b), (c), and (d) (including in section headings, subsection 
     captions, tables of chapters, and tables of sections) and 
     inserting ``Department of the Navy and Marine Corps'' and 
     ``Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps'', respectively, in 
     each case with the matter inserted to be in the same typeface 
     and typestyle as the matter stricken.
       (2)(A) Sections 5013(f), 5014(b)(2), 5016(a), 5017(2), 
     5032(a), and 5042(a) of such title are amended by striking 
     ``Assistant Secretaries of the Navy'' and inserting 
     ``Assistant Secretaries of the Navy and Marine Corps''.
       (B) The heading of section 5016 of such title, and the item 
     relating to such section in the table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 503 of such title, are each amended by 
     inserting ``and Marine Corps'' after ``of the Navy'', with 
     the matter inserted in each case to be in the same typeface 
     and typestyle as the matter amended.

     SEC. 913. OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW AND OTHER REFERENCES.

       (a) Title 37, United States Code.--Title 37, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``Department of the Navy'' and 
     ``Secretary of the Navy'' each place they appear and 
     inserting ``Department of the Navy and Marine Corps'' and 
     ``Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps'', respectively.
       (b) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than 
     in title 10 or title 37, United States Code, or in any 
     regulation, document, record, or other paper of the United 
     States, to the Department of the Navy shall be considered to 
     be a reference to the Department of the Navy and Marine 
     Corps. Any such reference to an office specified in section 
     911(b) shall be considered to be a reference to that office 
     as redesignated by that section.

     SEC. 914. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       This subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle 
     shall take effect on the first day of the first month 
     beginning more than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

     SEC. 921. TRANSITION OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF 
                   DEFENSE TO REFLECT ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITIONS 
                   OF UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND 
                   ENGINEERING, UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR 
                   ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT, AND CHIEF 
                   MANAGEMENT OFFICER.

       (a) References to Positions Pending Execution of 
     Amendments.--Until February 1, 2018, any reference in this 
     Act, or an amendment made by this Act--
       (1) to the position of Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Research and Engineering, to be established by the amendment 
     made by section 901(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2339), shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics under section 133 of title 10, United States Code;
       (2) to the position of Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment, to be established by the 
     amendment made by section 901(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2340), shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics under section 133 of title 10, United States Code; 
     and
       (3) to the position of Chief Management Officer of the 
     Department of Defense, to be established by section 901(c) of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2341; 10 U.S.C. 131 note), 
     shall be deemed to be a reference to the Deputy Secretary of 
     Defense under section 132 of title 10, United States Code.
       (b) Service of Incumbents.--
       (1) Principal deputy under secretary of defense for 
     acquisition, technology, and logistics.--The individual 
     serving as Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics under section 
     137a(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as of February 1, 
     2018, may continue to serve as Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition and Sustainment commencing as of that date, 
     without further appointment under section 133b of such title, 
     as added by section 901(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2340).
       (2) Deputy chief management officer.--The individual 
     serving as Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department 
     of Defense under section 132a of title 10, United States 
     Code, as of February 1, 2018, may continue to serve as Chief 
     Management Officer commencing as of that date, without 
     further appointment under section 901(c) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2341; 10 U.S.C. 131 note).

     SEC. 922. EXTENSION OF DEADLINES FOR REPORTING AND BRIEFING 
                   REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMISSION ON THE NATIONAL 
                   DEFENSE STRATEGY FOR THE UNITED STATES.

       Section 942(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2368) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 1, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``January 31, 2018''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``June 1, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``September 1, 2017''.

     SEC. 923. BRIEFING ON FORCE MANAGEMENT LEVEL POLICY.

       (a) Findings; Sense of Congress.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (A) The force management level policy that previously 
     restricted the total number of members of the Armed Forces of 
     the United States deployed to Afghanistan increased the cost 
     of operations in Afghanistan.
       (B) The restriction meant that the Department of Defense 
     had to substitute available military personnel for costlier 
     contract support.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Department of Defense should discourage the practice of 
     substituting contractor personnel for available members of 
     the Armed Forces when a unit deploys overseas and should 
     revise this practice as it pertains to unit deployment to 
     Afghanistan.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 31, 2018, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense 
     committees a briefing detailing--
       (1) the steps that the Secretary is taking to revise 
     deployment guidelines to ensure that readiness, unit 
     cohesion, and maintenance are prioritized; and
       (2) the plan of the Secretary to establish a policy that 
     will avoid to the extent practicable these costly practices 
     in the future.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

     SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
       (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of 
     authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this division for fiscal year 2018 between any such 
     authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions 
     thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be 
     merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
     authorization to which transferred.
       (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
     total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may 
     transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed 
     $5,000,000,000.
       (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
     authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military 
     personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be counted 
     toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
       (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
     to transfer authorizations--
       (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
     have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
     transferred; and
       (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
     has been denied authorization by Congress.
       (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from 
     one account to another under the authority of this section 
     shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the 
     account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal 
     to the amount transferred.
       (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly 
     notify Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

     SEC. 1002. PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN 
                   AND IMPLEMENTATION OF CENTRALIZED REPORTING 
                   SYSTEM.

       (a) Establishment.--In accordance with the recommendations 
     included in the Government Accountability Office report 
     numbered GAO-17-85 and entitled ``DOD Financial Management: 
     Significant Efforts Still Needed for Remediating Audit 
     Readiness Deficiencies'', the Under Secretary of Defense 
     (Comptroller) of the Department of Defense shall--
       (1) on a bimonthly basis, prepare a consolidated corrective 
     action plan management summary on the status of all 
     corrective actions plans related to critical capabilities for 
     the military services and for the service providers and other 
     defense organizations; and
       (2) develop and implement a centralized monitoring and 
     reporting process that captures and maintains up-to-date 
     information, including the standard data elements recommended 
     in the implementation guide for Office of Management and 
     Budget Circular A-123, for all corrective action plans and 
     findings and recommendations Department-wide that pertain to 
     critical capabilities.
       (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall take effect on 
     October 1, 2017.

     SEC. 1003. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE AUDITS.

       (a)  Financial Improvement Audit Readiness Plan.--Section 
     1003(a)(2)(A)(ii) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note) 
     is amended by striking ``are validated as ready for audit by 
     not later than September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``go under 
     full financial statement audit beginning September 30, 2017, 
     and that the department leadership make every effort to reach 
     an unmodified opinion as soon as possible''.
       (b) Audit of Fiscal Year 2018 Financial Statements.--
     Section 1003(a) of the National

[[Page H5582]]

     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
     113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note) is amended by striking ``are 
     validated as ready for audit by not later than'' and 
     inserting ``go under full financial statement audit 
     beginning''.

                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

     SEC. 1011. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

       (a) Fund Purposes; Deposits.--Section 2218 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) by striking subparagraph (D); and
       (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D);
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or (D)''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a period; and
       (iii) by striking subparagraph (D);
       (B) by striking paragraph (2);
       (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
       (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (3):
       ``(3) Any other funds made available to the Department of 
     Defense to carry out any of the purposes described in 
     subsection (c).''.
       (b) Authority to Purchase Used Vessels.--Subsection (f) of 
     such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3)(A) Notwithstanding the limitations under subsection 
     (c)(1)(E) and paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may, as 
     part of a program to recapitalize the Ready Reserve Force 
     component of the national defense reserve fleet and the 
     Military Sealift Command surge fleet, purchase any used 
     vessel, regardless of where such vessel was constructed if 
     such vessel--
       ``(i) participated in the Maritime Security Fleet; and
       ``(ii) is available for purchase at a reasonable cost, as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       ``(B) If the Secretary determines that no used vessel 
     meeting the requirements under clauses (i) and (ii) of 
     subparagraph (A) is available, the Secretary may purchase a 
     used vessel comparable to a vessel described in clause (i) of 
     subparagraph (A), regardless of the source of the vessel or 
     where the vessel was constructed, if such vessel is available 
     for purchase at a reasonable cost, as determined by the 
     Secretary.
       ``(C) The Secretary may not use the authority under this 
     paragraph to purchase more than five additional foreign 
     constructed ships. Any such ships may not be purchased at a 
     rate that exceeds one vessel constructed outside the United 
     States for every new Department of Defense sealift vessel 
     authorized by law to be constructed.
       ``(D) Prior to the purchase of any vessel that was not 
     constructed in the United States, the Secretary, in 
     consultation with the Maritime Administrator, shall certify 
     that there is no vessel available for purchase at a 
     reasonable price that--
       ``(i) was constructed in the United States; and
       ``(ii) is suitable for use by the United States for 
     national defense or military purposes in a time of war or 
     national emergency.''.
       (c) Definition of Maritime Security Fleet.--Subsection (k) 
     of such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(5) The term `Maritime Security Fleet' means the fleet 
     established under section 53102(a) of title 46.''.
       (d) Technical Amendment.--Such section is further amended 
     by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 1744)'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4405)''.

     SEC. 1012. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND: CONSTRUCTION OF 
                   NATIONAL ICEBREAKER VESSELS.

       Section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
     section 2211, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1), by adding at the end the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(E) Construction (including design of vessels), purchase, 
     alteration, and conversion of national icebreaker vessels.''; 
     and
       (2) in subsection (d)(1),
       (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' and the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) construction (including design of vessels), purchase, 
     alteration, and conversion of national icebreaker vessels.''.

     SEC. 1013. USE OF NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND FOR 
                   MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT OF CERTAIN CRITICAL 
                   COMPONENTS.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 2218a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``the common missile compartment'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``critical components''; and
       (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``critical parts, 
     components, systems, and subsystems'' and inserting 
     ``critical components''.
       (b) Definition of Critical Component.--Subsection (k) of 
     such section is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) The term `critical component' means any--
       ``(A) any item that is high volume or high value; or
       ``(B) any common missile compartment component, shipyard 
     manufactured component, valve, torpedo tube, or Government 
     furnished equipment, including propulsors and strategic 
     weapons system launchers.''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The subsection heading for 
     subsection (i) of such section is amended by striking ``of 
     the Common Missile Compartment''.

     SEC. 1014. RESTRICTIONS ON THE OVERHAUL AND REPAIR OF VESSELS 
                   IN FOREIGN SHIPYARDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 7310(b)(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``In the case'' and inserting ``(A) Except 
     as provided in subparagraph (B), in the case'';
       (2) by striking ``during the 15-month'' and all that 
     follows through ``United States)'';
       (3) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, other than in the case of voyage repairs''; 
     and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(B) The Secretary of the Navy may waive the application 
     of subparagraph (A) to a contract award if the Secretary 
     determines that the waiver is essential to the national 
     security interests of the United States.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the later of the following dates:
       (1) The date of the enactment of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019.
       (2) October 1, 2018.

     SEC. 1015. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OR 
                   INACTIVATION OF TICONDEROGA-CLASS CRUISERS OR 
                   DOCK LANDING SHIPS.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 may be obligated or expended--
       (1) to retire, prepare to retire, or inactivate a cruiser 
     or dock landing ship; or
       (2) to place more than six cruisers and one dock landing 
     ship in the modernization program under section 1026(a)(2) of 
     the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3490).

     SEC. 1016. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES ON MINIMUM NUMBER OF 
                   BATTLE FORCE SHIPS.

       It shall be the policy of the United States to have 
     available, as soon as practicable, not fewer than 355 battle 
     force ships, with funding subject to the annual authorization 
     of appropriation and the annual appropriation of funds.

                      Subtitle C--Counterterrorism

     SEC. 1021. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT ANNUAL BUDGET 
                   JUSTIFICATION DISPLAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   COMBATING TERRORISM PROGRAM.

       Section 229 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Termination.--The requirement to submit a budget 
     justification display under this section shall terminate on 
     December 31, 2020.''.

     SEC. 1022. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
                   RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED 
                   STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA TO 
                   THE UNITED STATES.

       No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available for the Department of Defense may be used during 
     the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and ending on December 31, 2018, to transfer, release, or 
     assist in the transfer or release to or within the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions of Khalid Sheikh 
     Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after January 20, 2009, at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.

     SEC. 1023. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY 
                   FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE 
                   DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL 
                   STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

       (a) In General.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may 
     be used during the period beginning on the date of the 
     enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2018, to 
     construct or modify any facility in the United States, its 
     territories, or possessions to house any individual detained 
     at Guantanamo for the purposes of detention or imprisonment 
     in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
     Defense.
       (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to any modification of facilities at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' has 
     the meaning given that term in section 1034(f)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 971; 10 U.S.C. 801 note).

     SEC. 1024. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
                   RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED 
                   STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO 
                   CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

       No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available for the Department of Defense may be used during 
     the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and ending on December 31, 2018, to transfer, release, or 
     assist in the transfer or release of any individual detained 
     in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
     Defense at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
     to the custody or control of any country, or any entity 
     within such country, as follows:
       (1) Libya.
       (2) Somalia.
       (3) Syria.
       (4) Yemen.

     SEC. 1025. BIANNUAL REPORT ON SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
                   TO COMBAT TERRORISM.

       Section 127e(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``March 1'' and inserting 
     ``120 days after the last day of a fiscal year''; and

[[Page H5583]]

       (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``September 1'' and 
     inserting ``six months after the date of the submittal of the 
     report most recently submitted under paragraph (1)''.

         Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

     SEC. 1031. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR EMERGENCY 
                   AND EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES FOR INTELLIGENCE AND 
                   COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND 
                   REPRESENTATION ALLOWANCES.

       (a) Recurring Expenses.--The first sentence of subsection 
     (a) of section 127 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, and is not a recurring expense''.
       (b) Limitation.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) Funds may not be obligated or expended in an amount 
     in excess of $25,000 under the authority of subsection (a) or 
     (b) for intelligence or counter-intelligence activities or 
     representation allowances until the Secretary of Defense has 
     notified the congressional defense committees and the 
     congressional intelligence committees of the intent to 
     obligate or expend the funds, and--
       ``(A) in the case of an obligation or expenditure in excess 
     of $100,000, 15 days have elapsed since the date of the 
     notification; or
       ``(B) in the case of an obligation or expenditure in excess 
     of $25,000, but not in excess of $100,000, five days have 
     elapsed since the date of the notification.''.
       (c) Annual Report.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``to the congressional defense committees'' 
     and all that follows through the period at the end and 
     inserting an em dash; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(1) to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     all expenditures during the preceding fiscal year under 
     subsections (a) and (b); and
       ``(2) to the congressional intelligence committees a report 
     on expenditures relating to intelligence and counter-
     intelligence during the preceding fiscal year under 
     subsections (a) and (b).''.
       (d) Definition.--Such section is further amended by adding 
     at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Definition of Congressional Intelligence 
     Committees.--In this section, the term `congressional 
     intelligence committees' means the Permanent Select Committee 
     on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.''.

     SEC. 1032. MODIFICATIONS TO HUMANITARIAN DEMINING ASSISTANCE 
                   AUTHORITIES.

       (a) Modification to the Role of Armed Forces in Providing 
     Humanitarian Demining Assistance.--Subsection (a)(3) of 
     section 407 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``or stockpiled conventional munitions assistance''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (A)--
       (A) by inserting ``, unexploded explosive ordnance,'' after 
     ``landmines''; and
       (B) by striking ``, or stockpiled conventional munitions, 
     as applicable''.
       (b) Modification to Definition of Humanitarian Demining 
     Assistance.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``, unexploded explosive ordnance,'' after 
     ``landmines'' in each place it appears; and
       (2) by striking ``, and the disposal'' and all that follows 
     and inserting a period.
       (c) Modification to Definition of Stockpiled Conventional 
     Munitions Assistance.--Subsection (e)(2) of such section is 
     amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``, the 
     detection and clearance of landmines and other explosive 
     remnants of war,''.

     SEC. 1033. PROHIBITION ON CHARGE OF CERTAIN TARIFFS ON 
                   AIRCRAFT TRAVELING THROUGH CHANNEL ROUTES.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 157 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2652. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on 
       aircraft traveling through channel routes

       ``The United States Transportation Command may not charge a 
     tariff by reason of the use by a military service of an 
     aircraft of that military service on a route designated by 
     the United States Transportation Command as a channel 
     route.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2652. Prohibition on charge of certain tariffs on aircraft traveling 
              through channel routes''.

     SEC. 1034. LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF U-2 OR RQ-4 AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Limitation.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), none 
     of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
     any fiscal year before fiscal year 2024 may be obligated or 
     expended to prepare to divest, divest, place in storage, or 
     place in a status awaiting further disposition of the 
     possessing commander any U-2 or RQ-4 aircraft of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an 
     individual U-2 or RQ-4 aircraft that the Secretary of the Air 
     Force determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-
     returnable to flying service due to any mishap, other damage, 
     or being uneconomical to repair.
       (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 133 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81) is 
     hereby repealed.

     SEC. 1035. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
                   LEGACY MARITIME MINE COUNTERMEASURES PLATFORMS.

       (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
     Secretary of the Navy may not obligate or expend funds to--
       (1) ) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in 
     storage any AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship or 
     associated equipment;
       (2) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in 
     storage any SEA DRAGON (MH-53) helicopter or associated 
     equipment;
       (3) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to 
     any AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship; or
       (4) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to 
     any SEA DRAGON (MH-53) helicopter squadron or detachment.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the 
     prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary certifies 
     to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary 
     has--
       (1) identified a replacement capability and the necessary 
     quantity of such systems to meet all combatant commander mine 
     countermeasures operational requirements that are currently 
     being met by any AVENGER-class ship or SEA DRAGON helicopter 
     to be retired, transferred, or placed in storage;
       (2) achieved initial operational capability of all systems 
     described in paragraph (1); and
       (3) deployed a sufficient quantity of systems described in 
     paragraph (1) that have achieved initial operational 
     capability to continue to meet or exceed all combatant 
     commander mine countermeasures operational requirements 
     currently being met by the AVENGER-class ships and SEA DRAGON 
     helicopters to be retired, transferred, or placed in storage.

     SEC. 1036. RESTRICTION ON USE OF CERTAIN FUNDS PENDING 
                   SOLICITATION OF BIDS FOR WESTERN PACIFIC DRY 
                   DOCK.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Following closure of the Department of the Navy ship 
     repair facility in Guam in 1997 following the Base 
     Realignment and Closure round of 1995, operation of the 
     facility was turned over to a private company.
       (2) While streamlining operations, resulting in savings to 
     the Navy of approximately $38,000,000 each year, the company 
     was able to maintain the depot-level capabilities of the 
     facility with dry-docking capability that had existed in Apra 
     Harbor since World War II.
       (3) From 1997 to 2012, the private operator successfully 
     performed 28 major overhauls with dry-dockings of Navy, 
     Military Sealift Command, and Coast Guard vessels, 27 mid-
     term availabilities, as well as the emergency dry-docking of 
     USS San Francisco (SSN-711) after the nuclear powered 
     submarine collided with a seamount off the coast of Guam in 
     2005.
       (4) While the privately owned dry-dock, Machinist, was 
     undergoing upgrades and refurbishment in 2013, the Navy 
     announced that it would split the long-standing depot-level 
     capability in Guam into two pieces, awarding an initial 
     contract for pier-side ship repair, to be followed by a 
     contract for dry-dock ship repair.
       (5) At this time, the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives, including the Delegate from Guam, 
     as well as the Governor of Guam, objected to this plan, and a 
     conditional agreement was made wherein the Navy committed to 
     restoring dry-docking capabilities expeditiously following 
     issuance of the pier-side contract.
       (6) Despite repeated requests from the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives, the Delegate from 
     Guam, and the Governor of Guam over the past four years, the 
     Secretary of the Navy has failed to issue the dry-dock 
     contract.
       (7) The Navy conducted a business case analysis to assess 
     options for a dry-docking capability in Guam in 2014 and 
     agreed to provide a copy of the report to Congress upon 
     completion. The draft business case analysis was provided to 
     the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives on March 3, 2016, but a final document was 
     not produced.
       (8) The draft business case analysis evaluated 200 
     potential options for restoring a dry-docking capability in 
     Guam, recommending seven potential courses of action, with 
     estimated costs ranging from $324,000,000 to $398,000,000 
     over a 50-year life cycle. The business case analysis 
     concluded that any of these options are significant savings 
     when compared with the cost of not having a dry-docking 
     capability in Guam, which exceeds $700,000,000 over a 50-year 
     period.
       (9) The Navy has removed machinery and equipment needed to 
     perform major overhauls from the former ship repair facility, 
     and shifted ship repair work previously performed in Guam to 
     various foreign locations in the Western Pacific. The total 
     cost of Navy ship repair contracts in Guam have gone from 
     $45,00,000 in 2010 to $16,000,000 in 2016.
       (10) As a result of Navy actions over the past five years, 
     the number of skilled workers engaged in ship repair in Guam 
     has been reduced from a combined total of approximately 550 
     at three ship-repair companies in Guam to the current level 
     of 150. Due to this degraded workforce and equipment 
     capabilities, the Navy is now forced to rely almost 
     exclusively on foreign ship repair instead at a time when the 
     Committee believes tensions and threats of crisis in the 
     Western Pacific can put access to foreign shipyards at risk.
       (11) Navy leadership has long acknowledged the importance 
     of a depot-level, dry-docking capability in Guam, as 
     evidenced by the following:
       (A) ``Robust depot-level ship repair capability in Guam is 
     a matter of strategic importance and

[[Page H5584]]

     remains an operational necessity because ships of the 7th 
     Fleet have high operational tempo and experience vast 
     distances between repair facilities.'' (Letter from the 
     Commander of the Pacific Fleet to the Governor of Guam, dated 
     February 15, 2013).
       (B) ``We must maintain a viable ship maintenance capability 
     in Guam to include dry-docking in support of operations and 
     contingency plans (OPLANs and CONPLANs) and the U.S. Navy 
     rebalance to the Pacific. Guam is a strategic in-theater 
     location for depot-level ship maintenance on sovereign U.S. 
     territory. This is a significant factor given that commercial 
     dry docks available in foreign countries considered friendly 
     to the United States may become unavailable to SEVENTH Fleet 
     ships in time of crisis or war. Availability of CPF ships 
     would be stressed if assets are required to dry dock in CONUS 
     due to the non-availability of a secure dry docking 
     capability in the Western Pacific. Dry-docking in Guam is a 
     critical component of depot-level ship repair. The capability 
     must be maintained and regularly exercised so that a 
     capability and expertise are available to support ships of 
     the SEVENTH Fleet in peace and war.'' (Letter from the 
     Commander of the Pacific Fleet to the Chief of Naval 
     Operations, dated February 7, 2014).
       (C) On February 24, 2016, in testimony before the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, Admiral 
     Harry Harris, Commander of the United States Pacific Command, 
     affirmed that he continues to view robust ship repair 
     capabilities as a matter of strategic importance and an 
     operational priority for United States Pacific Fleet.
       (12) The Navy currently has four fast-attack nuclear 
     submarines homeported in Guam.
       (13) The Navy homeports submarine squadrons at seven 
     locations in the United States, each of which has a dry-
     docking capability, with the exception of Guam.
       (14) The Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives believes that dry-docking capability in Guam 
     is a strategic requirement and a cost-effective means of 
     ensuring the Forward Deployed Fleet has depot-level repair 
     capabilities at a United States port in the Western Pacific.
       (15) Amounts were authorized to be appropriated in the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328) and appropriated in the Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31) for funds be 
     applied to chartering a dry dock to meet fleet maintenance 
     requirements in the Western Pacific.
       (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 75 percent 
     of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
     available for the Office of the Secretary of the Navy may be 
     obligated or expended until the Secretary submits to Congress 
     notice that a request for proposals has been issued to 
     solicit bids for the chartering of a dry dock in the Western 
     Pacific that satisfies the minimum requirements for heavy 
     ship depot-level repair.

     SEC. 1037. NATIONAL GUARD FLYOVERS OF PUBLIC EVENTS.

       (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the 
     Department of Defense that flyovers of public events in 
     support of community relations activities may only be flown 
     as part of an approved training mission at no additional 
     expense to the Federal Government.
       (b) National Guard Flyover Approval Process.--The Adjutant 
     General of a State or territory in which an Army National 
     Guard or Air National Guard unit is based will be the 
     approval authority for all Air National Guard and Army 
     National Guard flyovers in that State or territory, including 
     any request for a flyover in any civilian domain at a 
     nonaviation related event.
       (c) Flyover Record Maintenance; Report.--
       (1) Record maintenance.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     keep and maintain records of flyover requests and approvals 
     in a publicly accessible database that is updated annually.
       (2) GAO report.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate a report on flyovers and the process 
     whereby flyover requests are made and evaluated, including--
       (A) whether there is any cost to taxpayers associated with 
     flyovers;
       (B) whether there is any appreciable public relations or 
     recruitment value that comes from flyovers; and
       (C) the impact flyovers have to aviator training and 
     readiness.
       (d) Flyover Defined.--In this section, the term ``flyover'' 
     means aviation support--
       (1) in which a straight and level flight limited to one 
     pass by a single military aircraft, or by a single formation 
     of four or fewer military aircraft of the same type, from the 
     same military department over a predetermined point on the 
     ground at a specific time;
       (2) that does not involve aerobatics or demonstrations; and
       (3) uses bank angles of up to 90 degrees if required to 
     improve the spectator visibility of the aircraft.

     SEC. 1038. TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL 
                   COMMISSION.

       (a) Authority To Transfer Funds.--The Secretary of Defense 
     may transfer to the World War I Centennial Commission, from 
     amounts described in subsection (b), such amount as the 
     Secretary and the Chair of the World War I Centennial 
     Commission consider appropriate to assist the Commission in 
     carrying out activities under paragraphs (2) through (5) of 
     section 5(a) of the World War I Centennial Commission Act 
     (Public Law 112-272; 36 U.S.C. prec. 101 note) after fiscal 
     year 2017.
       (b) Designated Account.--Funds transferred pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be maintained in a specially designated 
     account and may not be obligated or expended for the 
     designation, establishment, or enhancement of a memorial or 
     commemorative work by the World War I Centennial Commission.
       (c) Covered Funds.--The funds transferrable by the 
     Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) shall be derived from 
     amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 
     for Civil Military Programs as provided in section 4301 of 
     this Act.
       (d) Treatment as Gift.--Any amounts transferred to the 
     World War I Centennial Commission pursuant to subsection (a) 
     shall be treated as a gift to the Commission for purposes of 
     sections 6(g) and 7(f) of the World War I Centennial 
     Commission Act.
       (e) Limitation.--The total amount provided by the Secretary 
     pursuant to subsection (a) shall not exceed $5,000,000.
       (f) World War I Centennial Commission Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``World War I Centennial Commission'' means 
     the Commission established by section 4 of the World War I 
     Centennial Commission Act.

                    Subtitle E--Studies and Reports

     SEC. 1051. ELIMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS TERMINATED 
                   AFTER NOVEMBER 25, 2017, PURSUANT TO SECTION 
                   1080 OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT 
                   FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016.

       (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 113 reports.--
       (A) Reserve forces policy board report.--Section 113(c) is 
     amended--
       (i) by striking paragraph (2);
       (ii) by striking ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and
       (iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
     paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
       (B) Total force management report.--Section 113 is amended 
     by striking subsection (l).
       (2) Annual defense manpower requirements report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 115a is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 2 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 115a.
       (3) Information on procurement of contract services.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 235 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 9 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 235.
       (4) Defense industrial security report.--Section 428 is 
     amended by striking subsection (f).
       (5) Military musical units gift report.--Section 974(d) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (3).
       (6) Health protection quality report.--Section 1073b is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (a); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
     (a) and (b), respectively.
       (7) Master plans for reductions in civilian positions.--
       (A) In general.--Section 1597 is amended--
       (i) by striking subsection (c);
       (ii) by striking subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
     subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
       (iii) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by striking ``or 
     a master plan prepared under subsection (c)''.
       (B) Conforming amendments.--Section 129a(d) is amended--
       (i) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2); and
       (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
     (1) and (2), respectively.
       (8) Acquisition workforce development fund report.--Section 
     1705 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``subsection (h)(2)'' 
     and inserting ``subsection (g)(2)'';
       (B) by striking subsection (f); and
       (C) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
     (f) and (g), respectively.
       (9) Acquisition corps report.--Section 1722b is amended by 
     striking subsection (c).
       (10) Military family readiness report.--Section 1781b is 
     amended by striking subsection (d).
       (11) Professional military education report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 2157 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 107 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 2157.
       (12) Starbase program report.--Section 2193b is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (g); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
       (13) Department of defense conferences fee-collection 
     report.--Section 2262 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (14) United states contributions to nato common-funded 
     budgets report.--Section 2263 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
       (15) Foreign counter-space programs report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 2277 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 135 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 2277.
       (16) Use of multiyear contracts report.--Section 
     2306b(l)(4) is amended by striking ``Not later than'' and all 
     that follows through the colon and inserting the following: 
     ``Each report required by paragraph (5) with respect to a 
     contract (or contract extension) shall contain the 
     following:''.
       (17) Burden sharing contributions report.--Section 2350j is 
     amended by striking subsection (f).
       (18) Contract prohibition waiver report.--Section 2410i(c) 
     is amended by striking the second sentence.

[[Page H5585]]

       (19) Strategic sourcing plan of action report.--Subsection 
     (a) of section 2475 is amended to read as follows:
       ``(a) Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action' means a 
     Strategic Sourcing Plan of Action for the Department of 
     Defense (as identified in the Department of Defense Interim 
     Guidance dated February 29, 2000, or any successor Department 
     of Defense guidance or directive) in effect for a fiscal 
     year.''.
       (20) Technology and industrial base policy guidance 
     report.--Section 2506 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``Such guidance'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(b) Purpose of Guidance.--The guidance prescribed 
     pursuant to subsection (a)''.
       (21) Foreign-controlled contractors report.--Section 2537 
     is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (c).
       (22) Support for sporting events report.--Section 2564 is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively.
       (23) General and flag officer quarters report.--Section 
     2831 is amended by striking subsection (e).
       (24) Military installations vulnerability assessment 
     reports.--Section 2859 is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) by designating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
       (25) Industrial facility investment program construction 
     report.--Section 2861 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (26) Statement of amounts available for water conservation 
     at military installations.--Section 2866(b) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (27) Acquisition or construction of military unaccompanied 
     housing pilot projects report.--Section 2881a is amended by 
     striking subsection (e).
       (28) Statement of amounts available from energy cost 
     savings.--Section 2912 is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (29) Army training report.--
       (A) Elimination.--Section 4316 is repealed.
       (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 401 is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 4316.
       (30) State of the army reserve report.--Section 3038(f) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (31) State of the marine corps reserve report.--Section 
     5144(d) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (32) State of the air force reserve report.--Section 
     8038(f) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (b) Title 32, United States Code.--Section 509 of title 32, 
     United States Code, relating to an annual report on the 
     National Guard Youth Challenge Program, is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (k); and
       (2) by redesignating subsections (l) and (m) as subsections 
     (k) and (l).
       (c) Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985.--Section 
     1003 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 
     (Public Law 98-525; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), relating to an 
     annual report on allied contributions to the common defense, 
     is amended by striking subsections (c) and (d).
       (d) National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989.--
     Section 1009 of the National Defense Authorization Act, 
     Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-456; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), 
     relating to an annual report on the official development 
     assistance program of Japan, is amended by striking 
     subsection (b).
       (e) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1991.--Section 1518 of the Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 24 U.S.C. 418), 
     relating to reports on the results of inspection of Armed 
     Forces Retirement Homes, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Congress and''; and
       (2) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by striking paragraph (2);
       (B) by striking ``(1)'' before ``Not later''; and
       (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
       (f) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 
     1992 and 1993.--Section 1046 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 
     102-190; 22 U.S.C. 1928 note), relating to an annual report 
     on defense cost-sharing, is amended by striking subsections 
     (e) and (f).
       (g) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1994.--Section 1603 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 22 U.S.C. 2751 
     note), relating to an annual report on counterproliferation 
     policy and programs of the United States, is amended by 
     striking subsection (d).
       (h) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1995.--Section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 10 U.S.C. 113 
     note), relating to an annual report on personnel readiness 
     factors by race and gender, is repealed.
       (i) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2000.--Section 366 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), 
     relating to an annual report on spare parts, logistics, and 
     sustainment standards, is amended by striking subsection (f).
       (j) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2002.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2002 (Public Law 107-107) is amended as follows:
       (1) Army workload and performance system report.--Section 
     346 (115 Stat. 1062) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b).
       (2) Reliability of financial statements report.--Section 
     1008(d) (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(1)'' before ``On each''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2).
       (k) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2003.--Section 817 of the Bob Stump National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 
     10 U.S.C. 2306a note), relating to an annual report on 
     commercial item and exceptional case exceptions and waivers, 
     is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (d); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (l) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2004.--Section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136), relating to an 
     annual report on support to law enforcement agencies 
     conducting counter-terrorism activities, is amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (c); and
       (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (c) and (d).
       (m) National Defense Authorization Act for 2006.--The 
     National Defense Authorization Act for 2006 (Public Law 109-
     163) is amended as follows:
       (1) Notification of adjustment in limitation amount for 
     next-generation destroyer program.--Section 123 (119 Stat. 
     3156) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (d); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (2) Certification of budgets for joint tactical radio 
     system report.--Section 218(c) (119 Stat. 3171) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (3) Department of defense costs to carry out united nations 
     resolutions report.--Section 1224 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is 
     repealed.
       (n) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2007.--Section 357(b) of the John Warner National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
     22 U.S.C. 4865 note), relating to an annual report on 
     Department of Defense overseas personnel subject to chief of 
     mission authority, is amended by striking ``shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees'' and inserting ``shall 
     prepare''.
       (o) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2008.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2008 (Public Law 110-181) is amended as follows:
       (1) Army industrial facilities cooperative activities 
     report.--Section 328 (10 U.S.C. 4544 note) is amended by 
     striking subsection (b).
       (2) Army product improvement report.--Section 330 (122 
     Stat. 68) is amended by striking subsection (e).
       (p) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009.--The Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417) is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Support for non-conventional assisted recovery 
     activities report.--Section 943 (122 Stat. 4578) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
     subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
       (2) Reimbursement of navy mess expenses report.--Section 
     1014 (122 Stat. 4585) is amended by striking subsection (c).
       (3) Electromagnetic pulse attack report.--Section 1048 (122 
     Stat. 4603) is repealed.
       (q) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2010.--Section 121 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2211), 
     relating to an annual report on the Littoral Combat Ship 
     Program, is amended by striking subsection (e).
       (r) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011.--The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383) is amended as follows:
       (1) Navy airborne signals intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance capabilities report.--Section 112(b) (124 
     Stat. 4153) is amended--
       (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
       (2) Inclusion of technology protection features during 
     research and development of defense systems report.--Section 
     243 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
     (c) and (d), respectively.
       (3) Acquisition of military purpose nondevelopmental items 
     report.--Section 866 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (d); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (4) Nuclear triad report.--Section 1054 (10 U.S.C. 113 
     note) is repealed.
       (s) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2012 (Public Law 112-81) is amended as follows:
       (1) Performance management system and appointment 
     procedures report.--Section 1102 (5 U.S.C. 9902 note) is 
     amended by striking subsection (b).
       (2) Global security contingency fund report.--Section 1207 
     (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (n); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (o) and (p) as subsections 
     (n) and (o).

[[Page H5586]]

       (3) Data servers and centers cost savings report.--Section 
     2867 (10 U.S.C. 2223a note) is amended by striking subsection 
     (d).
       (t) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2013 (Public Law 112-239) is amended as follows:
       (1) F-22A raptor modernization program report.--Section 144 
     (126 Stat. 1663) is amended by striking subsection (c).
       (2) TRICARE mail-order pharmacy program report.--Section 
     716 (10 U.S.C. 1074g note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f).
       (3) Warriors in transition programs report.--Section 738 
     (10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
       (4) Use of indemnification agreements report.--Section 865 
     (126 Stat. 1861) is repealed.
       (5) Counter space technology report.--Section 917 (126 
     Stat. 1878) is repealed.
       (6) Imagery intelligence and geospatial information support 
     report.--Section 921 (126 Stat. 1878) is amended by striking 
     subsection (c).
       (7) Computer network operations coordination report.--
     Section 1079 (10 U.S.C. 221 note) is amended by striking 
     subsection (c).
       (8) Updates of activities of office of security cooperation 
     in iraq report.--Section 1211 (126 Stat. 1983) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (9) United states participation in the atares program 
     report.--Section 1276 (10 U.S.C. 2350c note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (e).
       (u) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014.--The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014 (Public Law 113-66) is amended as follows:
       (1) Modernizing personnel security strategy metrics 
     report.--Section 907(c)(3) (10 U.S.C. 1564 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(A) Metrics required.--In'' and inserting 
     ``In''; and
       (B) by striking subparagraph (B).
       (2) Defense clandestine service report.--Section 923 (10 
     U.S.C. prec. 421 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (b); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
     subsection (b), (c), and (d), respectively.
       (3) International agreements relating to dod report.--
     Section 1249 (127 Stat. 925) is repealed.
       (4) Small business growth report.--Section 1611 (127 Stat. 
     946) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (v) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015.--The Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
     113-291) is amended as follows:
       (1) Assignment of private sector personnel to defense 
     advanced research projects agency report.--Section 232 (10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively.
       (2) Government lodging program report.--Section 914 (5 
     U.S.C. 5911 note) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (3) DOD response to compromises of classified information 
     report.--Section 1052 (128 Stat. 3497) is repealed.
       (4) Personnel protection and personnel survivability 
     equipment loan report.--Section 1207 (10 U.S.C. 2342 note) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (d); and
       (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
       (5) DOD assistance to counter isis report.--Section 1236 
     (128 Stat. 3558) is amended by striking subsection (d).
       (6) Cooperative threat reduction program use of 
     contributions report.--Section 1325 (50 U.S.C. 3715) is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (e); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
     (e) and (f), respectively.
       (7) Cooperative threat reduction program facilities 
     certification report.--Section 1341 (50 U.S.C. 3741) is 
     repealed.
       (8) Cooperative threat reduction program project category 
     report.--Section 1342 (50 U.S.C. 3742) is repealed.
       (9) Statement on allocation of funds for space security and 
     defense program.--Section 1607 (128 Stat. 3625) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(a) Allocation of Funds.--'';
       (B) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d); and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``This 
     requirement shall terminate on December 19, 2019.''.
       (w) Preservation of Certain Additional Reports.--Effective 
     as of December 23, 2016, and as if included therein as 
     enacted, section 1061(c) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended as follows:
       (1) General defense reports.--Paragraph (1) is amended by 
     striking ``113(i)'' and inserting ``113(c), (e), and (i)''.
       (2) Annual operations and maintenance report.--Paragraph 
     (2) is amended by inserting after ``Section'' the following: 
     ``116 and section''.
       (3) Selected acquisition reports.--Paragraph (44) is 
     amended by inserting after ``Section'' the following: ``2432 
     and section''.
       (4) National guard bureau report.--By inserting after 
     paragraph (63) the following new paragraph:
       ``(64) Section 10504(b).''.
       (x) Preservation of Vetted Syrian Opposition Report.--
     Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included therein 
     as enacted, section 1061(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(18) Section 1209(d) (127 Stat. 3542).''.
       (y) Effective Date.--Except as provided in subsections (w) 
     and (x), the amendments made by this section shall take 
     effect on the later of--
       (1) the date of the enactment of this Act; or
       (2) November 25, 2017.

     SEC. 1052. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ARCTIC CAPABILITY 
                   AND RESOURCE GAPS.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     regarding necessary steps the Department of Defense is 
     undertaking to resolve arctic security capability and 
     resource gaps.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include an analysis of each of the following:
       (1) The infrastructure needed to ensure national security 
     in the arctic region.
       (2) Any shortfalls in observation, remote sensing 
     capabilities, ice prediction, and weather forecasting.
       (3) Any shortfalls of the Department in navigational aids.
       (4) Any additional, necessary high-latitude electronic and 
     communications infrastructure requirements.
       (5) Any gaps in intelligence, surveillance, and 
     reconnaissance coverage and recommendations for additional 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities
       (6) Any shortfalls in personnel recovery capabilities.
       (7) Any additional capabilities the Secretary determines 
     should be incorporated into future Navy surface combatants.
       (c) Form of Report.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 1053. REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   PERSONNEL RECOVERY AND NONCONVENTIONAL ASSISTED 
                   RECOVERY MECHANISMS.

       (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a review and assessment of personnel 
     recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery programs, 
     authorities, and policies.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) 
     shall include each of the following elements:
       (1) An overall strategy defining personnel recovery and 
     nonconventional assisted recovery programs and activities, 
     including how such programs and activities support the 
     requirements of the geographic combatant commanders.
       (2) A comprehensive review and assessment of statutory 
     authorities, policies, and interagency coordination 
     mechanisms, including limitations and shortfalls, for 
     personnel recovery and nonconventional assisted recovery 
     programs and activities.
       (3) A comprehensive description of current and anticipated 
     future personnel recovery and nonconventional assisted 
     recovery requirements across the future years defense 
     program, as validated by the Joint Staff.
       (4) An overview of validated current and expected future 
     force structure requirements necessary to meet near-, mid-, 
     and long-term personnel recovery and nonconventional assisted 
     recovery programs and activities of the geographic combatant 
     commanders.
       (5) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
       (c) Form of Assessment.--The assessment required under 
     subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may include a classified annex.
       (d) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 90 days 
     after the date on which the assessment required under 
     subsection (a) is submitted, the Comptroller General of the 
     United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a review of such assessment.

     SEC. 1054. MINE WARFARE READINESS INSPECTION PLAN AND REPORT.

       (a) Inspection Plan.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this subsection, the Chief of Naval 
     Operations, in consultation with the Combatant Commanders, 
     shall submit a plan for inspections of each unit and 
     organization tasked with delivering operational capability, 
     missions and mission essential tasks, functions, supporting 
     roles, organization, manning, training, and materiel for 
     naval mine warfare. At a minimum, inspected units and 
     organizations shall include those required in the Joint 
     Strategic Capabilities Plan and those assigned in the Forces 
     For Unified Commands document or have the potential to 
     support, by deployment or otherwise, a directed Operation 
     Plan, Concept Plan, contingency operation, homeland security 
     operation, or Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
     requirements for naval offensive or defensive mine warfare.
       (b) Criteria.--This inspection plan shall propose methods 
     to analytically assess, evaluate, improve and assure mission 
     readiness of each unit or organization with required 
     operational capabilities for naval mine warfare. Inspection 
     shall include--
       (1) an assessment or verification of material condition;
       (2) unit wide training and personnel readiness as measured 
     by established tasks, conditions and standards that 
     demonstrate the unit readiness to perform their wartime or 
     homeland defense mission;
       (3) force through unit level training;
       (4) readiness to support multi-echelon, joint service mine 
     warfare operations as part of an offensive, defensive mining 
     or mine countermeasures task;

[[Page H5587]]

       (5) readiness to support combatant commander campaign 
     plans, operational plan, concept plan, or the Joint Strategic 
     Capabilities Plan;
       (6) required operational capability;
       (7) inspection and reinspection process; and
       (8) inspection periodicy.
       (c) Applicability.--The inspection requirements under this 
     subsection apply to the following units and organizations:
       (1) Surface MCM vessels or vessels performing MCM tasks.
       (2) Airborne MCM squadrons.
       (3) Mobile mine assembly groups and mobile mine assembly 
     units.
       (4) Fleet patrol squadrons with mine laying capabilities.
       (5) LCS and LCS MCM mission modules upon reaching IOC.
       (6) Mine countermeasures squadrons.
       (7) Units exercising command and control over MIW forces.
       (8) MCM operational support ships.
       (9) Attack and guided missile submarines with mine laying 
     capabilities.
       (10) Magnetic and acoustic silencing facilities.
       (11) EOD MCM or VSW Companies and Platoons.
       (12) SEAL (ESG / CSG) USMC units with VSW capability.
       (d) Certification.--The Chief of Naval Operations shall 
     submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Combatant Commanders, 
     the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and to Congress a 
     report on the program under this subsection. The report shall 
     contain a classified section which addresses capability and 
     capacity to meet JSCP, OPLAN, CONPLAN and contingency 
     requirements and unclassified section with general summary 
     and readiness trends.
       (e) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1090 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92) is repealed.

     SEC. 1055. REPORT ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES FROM DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE STRIKES.

       (a) Report Required.--For each calendar year, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on strikes carried out by the Department 
     of Defense against terrorist targets located outside 
     Government-designated areas of active hostilities and against 
     enemy combatants located inside Government-designated areas 
     of active hostilities during the period beginning on January 
     1 and ending on December 31 of the year covered by the 
     report. Such report shall include each of the following, for 
     the period covered by the report:
       (1) The number of such strikes carried out in--
       (A) locations outside Government-designated areas of active 
     hostilities; and
       (B) locations inside Government-designated areas of active 
     hostilities.
       (2) An assessment of the combatant and non-combatant deaths 
     resulting from those strikes, including the number of such 
     deaths--
       (A) occurring outside of Government-designated areas of 
     active hostilities; and
       (B) occurring within Government-designated areas of active 
     hostilities, with the number of such deaths displayed to 
     indicate the Government-designated country or location within 
     the Government-designated country where such deaths occurred.
       (3) To the extent feasible and appropriate, the general 
     reasons for any discrepancies between post-strike assessments 
     from the Department of Defense and credible reporting from 
     nongovernmental organizations regarding non-combatant deaths 
     resulting from such strikes.
       (4) A description of steps taken by the Department of 
     Defense to mitigate harm to civilians in conducting such 
     strikes.
       (5) Definitions of the terms ``combatant'' and 
     ``noncombatant'' as used in the report.
       (6) The monthly tabulations collected by the Department of 
     Defense of combatant and non-combatant casualties occurring 
     inside of areas of active hostilities, and any revisions to 
     previously reported tabulations.
       (7) A specification of the countries where strikes 
     occurred, or locations within countries where strikes 
     occurred--
       (A) designated as areas of active hostilities; and
       (B) not designated as areas of active hostilities.
       (b) Deadline for Reports.--The reports required by 
     subsection (a) shall be submitted as follows:
       (1) The report for 2018 shall be submitted not later than 
     December 31, 2018.
       (2) The report for 2019, and for each subsequent year, 
     shall be submitted by not later than March 1 of the year 
     following the year covered by the report.
       (c) Review of Reporting.--In preparing a report under this 
     section, the Secretary of Defense shall review relevant and 
     credible post-strike all-source reporting, including such 
     information from nongovernmental sources.
       (d) Form of Report.--The reports required under subsection 
     (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include 
     a classified annex.
       (e) Public Availability.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     make the unclassified form of the reports publicly available.

     SEC. 1056. REPORTS ON INFRASTRUCTURE AND CAPABILITIES OF 
                   LAJES FIELD, PORTUGAL.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Lajes Field, Portugal, is an enabler of United States 
     operations in Europe, Africa, and the Atlantic.
       (2) Lajes field has capabilities and infrastructure that 
     reflect significant long-term investments by the United 
     States, including a 10,000 foot runway, housing for more than 
     650 personnel and their families, a power plant and water 
     facilities, significant communication capability, and an 
     award-winning medical clinic.
       (3) Lajes Field provides a strategic location to monitor 
     the activities of foreign powers in the Atlantic and 
     Mediterranean, including Russia's increased naval presence 
     and China's efforts to establish a military presence in the 
     Atlantic.
       (4) The Department of Defense has not fully utilized the 
     infrastructure at Lajes Field.
       (b) Infrastructure and Capabilities Report.--Not later than 
     90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report 
     on the infrastructure and capabilities of Lajes Field, 
     Portugal. Such report shall include each of the following:
       (1) An assessment of the communications infrastructure at 
     Lajes Field, including the estimated cost to--
       (A) upgrade the existing infrastructure to add additional 
     bandwidth of 56 giga-bits-per-second; and
       (B) connect the existing infrastructure to any currently 
     planned additional undersea cables to increase the available 
     bandwidth by at least 56 giga-bits-per-second.
       (2) A justification for the current status of Lajes Field 
     as an unaccompanied tour location and an assessment of the 
     estimated costs of converting assignments at Lajes Field to 
     an accompanied tour location.
       (3) An assessment of the estimated cost of allowing members 
     of the Armed Forces of the United States to occupy the on-
     base housing owned by the United States.
       (4) An update to the Housing Requirements and Market 
     Analysis for Lajes Field to assess the housing availability 
     for a base population of up to 2000 military and civilian 
     personnel.
       (5) The cost to establish Lajes Field as a location for 
     air-to-air training or anti-submarine warfare missions, 
     including the costs of any necessary infrastructure upgrades, 
     as well as any potential operational benefits.
       (c) Fuel Storage System Report.--Not later than one year 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
     the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the 
     environmental impact of fuel storage systems at Lajes Field, 
     Portugal. Such report shall include an impact assessment of 
     the soil contamination from Department of Defense fuel 
     storage systems at Lajes Field, including an assessment of 
     the causes of the leak of the Cabrito Pipeline.

     SEC. 1057. REPORT ON JOINT PACIFIC ALASKA RANGE COMPLEX 
                   MODERNIZATION.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report regarding proposed improvements to the Joint Pacific 
     Alaska Range Complex.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An analysis of existing JPARC infrastructure.
       (2) A summary of improvements to the range infrastructure 
     the Secretary determines are necessary--
       (A) for fifth generation fighters to train at maximum 
     potential; and
       (B) to provide a realistic air warfare environment versus a 
     near-peer adversary for--
       (i) four squadrons of fifth generation fighters;
       (ii) annual Red Flag-Alaska exercises; and
       (iii) biannual Operation Northern Edge exercises.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

     SEC. 1061. TECHNICAL, CONFORMING, AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.

       (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 113(j)(1) is amended by striking ``the 
     Committee on'' the first place it appears and all that 
     follows through ``of Representatives'' and inserting 
     ``congressional defense committees''.
       (2) Section 115(i)(9) is amended by striking ``section 
     1203(b) of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 1993 (22 
     U.S.C. 5952(b))'' and inserting ``section 1321(a) of the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
     U.S.C. 3711(a))''.
       (3) Section 122a(a) is amended by striking ``acting through 
     the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public 
     Affairs'' and inserting ``acting through the Assistant to the 
     Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs''.
       (4) Section 127(c)(1) is amended by striking ``the 
     Committee on'' the first place it appears and all that 
     follows through ``of Representatives'' and inserting 
     ``congressional defense committees''.
       (5) Section 129a is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``(as identified 
     pursuant to section 118b of this title)''; and
       (B) in subsection (d)--
       (i) by striking paragraph (1); and
       (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as 
     paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
       (6) Section 130f(b)(1) is amended by adding a period at the 
     end.
       (7) Section 139b(c)(2) is amended by inserting a period at 
     the end of subparagraph (K).
       (8) Section 153(a) is amended by inserting a colon after 
     ``the following'' in the matter preceding paragraph (1).
       (9) Section 162(a)(4) is amended by striking the comma 
     after ``command of''.
       (10) Section 164(a)(1)(B) is amended by striking ``section 
     664(f)'' and inserting ``section 664(d)''.
       (11) Section 166(c) is amended by striking ``section 2011'' 
     and inserting ``section 322''.
       (12) Section 167b(e)(2)(A)(iii)(II) is amended by striking 
     ``Fiscal Year 2014'' and inserting ``Fiscal Year 2016''.
       (13) Section 171a is amended--
       (A) in subsection (f), by striking ``(4))'' and inserting 
     ``(4)))''; and
       (B) in subsection (i)(3), by striking ``section 2366(e)'' 
     and inserting ``sections 2366(e) and 2366a(d)''.

[[Page H5588]]

       (14) Section 179(f)(3)(B)(iii) is amended by striking 
     ``Joints'' and inserting ``Joint''.
       (15) Section 181(b)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
     118'' and inserting ``section 113(g)''.
       (16) Section 222(b) is amended by striking ``both'' through 
     the period at the end and inserting ``major force 
     programs.''.
       (17) Section 342(j)(2) is amended by striking the second 
     period at the end.
       (18) Section 347(a)(1)(A) is amended by inserting 
     ``section'' in clauses (i) and (iii) after ``Academy under''.
       (19) Section 494(b)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``of title 
     10'' and inserting ``of this title''.
       (20) Section 661(c) is amended by striking ``section 
     664(f)'' in paragraphs (1)(B)(i) and (3)(A) and inserting 
     ``section 664(d)''.
       (21) Section 801 (article 1 of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
     striking ``chapter:'' and inserting ``chapter (the Uniform 
     Code of Military Justice):''.
       (22) Section 806b(b) (article 6b(b) of the Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice) is amended by striking ``(the Uniform Code 
     of Military Justice)''.
       (23) Section 1073c(a)(1)(E) is amended by striking 
     ``miliary'' and inserting ``military''.
       (24) Section 1074g(a)(9) is amended by moving subparagraphs 
     (B) and (C) two ems to the left.
       (25) Section 1451 is amended in subsections (a) and (b) by 
     striking ``section 1450(a)(4)'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``section 1450(a)(5)''.
       (26) Section 1452(c) is amended in paragraphs (1) and (3) 
     by striking ``section 1450(a)(4)'' both places it appears and 
     inserting ``section 1450(a)(5)''.
       (27) Section 1552(h) is amended by striking ``calender'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``calendar''.
       (28) Section 1553(f) is amended by striking ``calender'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``calendar''.
       (29) Section 2264(b)(3) is amended by striking ``the date 
     of the'' and all the follows through ``2015'' and inserting 
     ``December 19, 2014''.
       (30) Section 2330a is amended--
       (A) in subsection (d)(1)(C), by striking ``management.;'' 
     and inserting ``management;''; and
       (B) in subsection (h)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Performance-based.--'' 
     after ``(1)'';
       (ii) by designating the four paragraphs after paragraph (4) 
     as paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively;
       (iii) in paragraph (5), as redesignated, by inserting 
     ``Service acquisition portfolio groups.--'' after ``(5)''; 
     and
       (iv) in paragraph (6), as redesignated, by inserting 
     ``Staff augmentation contracts.--'' after ``(6)''.
       (31) Section 2334(a)(6)(B) is amended by adding a semicolon 
     at the end.
       (32) Section 2335 is amended by striking ``(2 U.S.C. 431 et 
     seq.)'' in subsections (c)(1) and (d)(3) and inserting ``(52 
     U.S.C. 30101 et seq.)''.
       (33) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 
     is amended by inserting at period at the end of the items 
     relating to sections 2372 and 2372a.
       (34) Section 2364(a)(6) is amended by striking ``conveys'' 
     and inserting ``convey''.
       (35) Section 2411(1)(D) is amended by striking ``(Public 
     Law 93-638; 25 U.S.C. 450b(l))'' and inserting ``(25 U.S.C. 
     5304(1))''.
       (36) The item relating to section 2431b in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 144 is amended to read 
     as follows:

``2431b. Risk management and mitigation in major defense acquisition 
              programs and major systems.''.
       (37) Section 2430 is amended by striking ``subsection 
     (a)(2)'' in subsections (b) and (c) and inserting 
     ``subsection (a)(1)(B)''.
       (38) Section 2431a(d) is amended by inserting ``(1)'' after 
     ``Review.--''.
       (39) Section 2446b(e) is amended--
       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``in 
     writing that--'' and inserting ``in writing--''; and
       (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, that'' after ``open 
     system approach''.
       (40) Section 2548(e) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Requirements'' and all that follows 
     through ``by the Secretary'' and inserting ``Requirement.--
     The annual report prepared by the Secretary'';
       (B) by striking ``system; and'' and inserting ``system.''; 
     and
       (C) by striking paragraph (2).
       (41) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 152 
     is amended by inserting a period at the end of the item 
     relating to section 2567.
       (42) Section 2564 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``section 377'' and 
     inserting ``section 277''; and
       (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``sections 375 and 376'' 
     and inserting ``sections 275 and 276''.
       (43) Section 2576a(b) is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
     end of paragraph (4).
       (44) Section 2612(a) is amended by striking ``section 
     2166(f)(4)'' and inserting ``section 343(f)(4)''.
       (45) Section 2662(f)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``section 
     334'' and inserting ``section 254''.
       (46) Section 2667(e) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1)(E), by striking ``military museum 
     described in section 489(a) of this title'' and inserting 
     ``military museum'';
       (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``before January 1, 2005, 
     shall be deposited into the account'' and inserting ``shall 
     be deposited into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account''; and
       (C) by striking paragraph (5).
       (47) Section 2667(k) is amended by striking ``section 
     9101'' and inserting ``section 8101''.
       (48) Section 2674(f)(2) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new sentence: ``The term includes the Raven Rock 
     Mountain Complex.''.
       (49) Section 2925(b)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
     138c'' and inserting ``section 2926(b)''.
       (50) Chapter 449 is amended--
       (A) by striking the second section 4781; and
       (B) in the table of sections, by striking the item relating 
     to the second section 4781.
       (51) Section 7235(e)(1) is amended by striking ``24 months 
     after the date of the enactment of this section'' and 
     inserting ``November 25, 2017,''.
       (52) The item relating to section 9517 in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 931 is amended by making 
     the first letter of the third word lower case.
       (b) Amendments Related to Repeal of Pending Authority To 
     Establish Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management 
     and Information.--
       (1) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
     2015.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, section 901 of the 
     Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3462), as amended by section 901(d) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2342), is further amended--
       (A) by striking subsection (j);
       (B) in subsection (l)(1), by striking subparagraph (A);
       (C) in subsection (m), by striking paragraphs (1) and (2); 
     and
       (D) in subsection (n), by striking paragraph (1).
       (2) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
     2016.--Effective as of November 25, 2015, subsection (f) of 
     section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), as added by section 
     1081(c)(5) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), is amended by striking 
     paragraph (1).
       (c) Technical Corrections Related to Uniform Code of 
     Military Justice Reform.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code 
     (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by the 
     Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-
     328), is further amended as follows:
       (A) Subsection (a)(4) of section 839 (article 39), as added 
     by section 5222(1) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2909), is amended by striking ``in non-capital cases 
     unless the accused requests sentencing by members under 
     section 825 of this title (article 25)'' and inserting 
     ``under section 853(b)(1) of this title (article 53(b)(1))''.
       (B) Subsection (i) of section 843 (article 43), as added by 
     section 5225(c) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2909), is amended by striking ``Dna Evidence.--'' and 
     inserting ``DNA Evidence.--''.
       (C) Section 848(c)(1) (article 48(c)(1)), as amended by 
     section 5230 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 
     2913), is further amended by striking ``section 866(g) of 
     this title (article 66(g))'' and inserting ``section 866(h) 
     of this title (article 66(h))''.
       (D) Section 853(b)(1)(B) (article 53(b)(1)(B)), as amended 
     by section 5236 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2937), is further amended by striking ``in a trial''.
       (E) Subsection (d) of section 853a (article 53a), as added 
     by section 5237 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2917), is amended by striking ``military judge'' the 
     second place it appears and inserting ``court-martial''.
       (F) Section 864(a) (article 64(a)), as amended by section 
     5328(a) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2929), 
     is further amended by striking ``(a) (a) In General.--'' and 
     inserting ``(a) In General.--''.
       (G) Subsection (b)(1) of section 865 (article 65), as added 
     by section 5329 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2930), is amended by striking ``section 866(b)(2) of 
     this title (article 66(b)(2))'' and inserting ``section 
     866(b)(3) of this title (article 66(b)(3))''.
       (H) Subsection (f)(3) of section 866 (article 66), as added 
     by section 5330 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2932), is amended by inserting after ``Court'' the 
     first place it appears the following: ``of Criminal 
     Appeals''.
       (I) Section 869(c)(1)(A) (article 69(c)(1)(A)), as amended 
     by section 5333 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2935), is further amended by inserting a comma after 
     ``in part''.
       (J) Section 882(b) (article 82(b)), as amended by section 
     5403 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2939), is 
     further amended by striking ``section 99'' and inserting 
     ``section 899''.
       (K) Section 919a(b) (article 119a(b)), as amended by 
     section 5401(13)(B) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2939), is further amended--
       (i) by striking ``928a, 926, and 928'' and inserting ``926, 
     928, and 928a''; and
       (ii) by striking ``128a 126, and 128'' and inserting ``126, 
     128, and 128a''.
       (L) Section 920(g)(2) (article 120(g)(2)), as amended by 
     section 5430(b) of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 
     Stat. 2949), is further amended in the first sentence by 
     striking ``brest'' and inserting ``breast''.
       (M) Section 928(b)(2) (article 128(b)(2)), as amended by 
     section 5441 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 
     2954), is further amended by striking the comma after 
     ``substantial bodily harm''.
       (N) Subsection (b)(2) of section 932 (article 132), as 
     added by section 5450 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 
     (130 Stat. 2957), is amended by striking ``section 1034(h)'' 
     and inserting ``section 1034(j)''.
       (O) Section 937 (article 137), as amended by section 5503 
     of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 2960), is 
     further amended by striking ``(the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice)'' each place it appears as follows:
       (i) In subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A).

[[Page H5589]]

       (ii) In subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A).
       (iii) In subsection (d), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1).
       (2) Cross-references to stalking.--Title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended as follows:
       (A) Section 673(a) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, or 920c'' and inserting ``920c, or 
     930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, or 120c'' and inserting ``120c, or 
     130''.
       (B) Section 674(a) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, 920b, 920c, or 925'' and inserting 
     ``920b, 920c, 125, or 930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, 120b, 120c, or 125'' and inserting 
     ``120b, 120c, 125, or 130''.
       (C) Section 1034(c)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``sections 
     920 through 920c of this title (articles 120 through 120c of 
     the Uniform Code of Military Justice)'' and inserting 
     ``section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 
     120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice)''.
       (D) Section 1044e(g)(1) is amended--
       (i) by striking ``920a, 920b, 920c, or 925'' and inserting 
     ``920b, 920c, 125, or 930''; and
       (ii) by striking ``120a, 120b, 120c, or 125'' and inserting 
     ``120b, 120c, 125, or 130''.
       (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by 
     the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 
     114-328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that 
     Act (130 Stat. 2967).
       (d) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 217(a)(2) (130 Stat. 2051) is amended by 
     striking ``section 821b'' and inserting ``section 821(b)''.
       (2) Section 233 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note; 130 Stat. 2061) is 
     amended in subsections (a)(1) and (b)(1), by striking 
     ``secretaries'' and inserting ``Secretaries''.
       (3) Section 728(b)(1) (130 Stat. 2234) is amended by 
     inserting ``(c)'' after ``Section 1073b''.
       (4) Section 805(a)(2) (130 Stat. 2255) is amended by 
     striking ``The table of chapters for title 10, United States 
     Code, is'' and inserting ``The tables of chapters at the 
     beginning of subtitle A, and at the beginning of part IV of 
     subtitle A, of title 10, United States Code, are''.
       (5) The matter to be inserted by section 824(d)(1)(B) (130 
     Stat. 2279) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``(3)'' and inserting ``(4)''; and
       (B) by striking ``(4)'' and inserting ``(5)''.
       (6) Section 833(b)(2)(C) (130 Stat. 2284) is amended--
       (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``Section 2330a(j) of title 
     10, United States Code,'' and inserting ``Section 2330a(h) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as redesignated by section 
     812(d),''; and
       (B) in clause (iii), in the matter proposed to be inserted, 
     by striking ``section 2330a(j)'' and inserting ``section 
     2330a(h)''.
       (7) Section 865(b)(2) (130 Stat. 2305) is amended by 
     striking ``section 2330a(g)(5)'' and inserting ``section 
     2330a(h)(6)''.
       (8) Section 893(c) (130 Stat. 2324) is amended by inserting 
     ``paragraph (2) of'' after ``is further amended in''.
       (9) Section 902(b) (130 Stat. 2344) is amended by striking 
     ``Section 151(b)(5)'' and inserting ``Section 131(b)(5)''.
       (10) Section 921(c) (130 Stat. 2351) is amended by 
     inserting after ``The text of'' the following: ``subsection 
     (a) (after the subsection heading)''.
       (11) Section 1061(c)(23) (130 Stat. 2400) is amended by 
     striking ``488(c)'' and inserting ``488''.
       (12) Section 1061(i) (130 Stat. 2404) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (23), by striking ``2010 (Public Law 110-
     417)'' and inserting ``2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 
     prec. 701 note)''; and
       (B) in paragraph (24), by striking ``2010'' and inserting 
     ``2009''.
       (13) Section 1064(b) (130 Stat. 2409) is amended by 
     striking ``Public Law 113-239'' and inserting ``Public Law 
     112-239''.
       (14) Section 1253(b) (130 Stat. 2532) is amended by 
     striking ``this subchapter'' both places it appears and 
     inserting ``this subtitle''.
       (15) Section 2811(c) (130 Stat. 2716) is amended by 
     striking ``, and the provisions of law amended by subsections 
     (a) and (b) of that section shall be restored as if such 
     section had not been enacted into law''.
       (16) Section 2829E(a) (130 Stat. 2733) is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3).
       (17) Section 5225(f) (130 Stat. 2910) is amended by 
     striking ``this subsection'' and inserting ``this section''.
       (18) The table of sections to be inserted by section 5452 
     (130 Stat. 2958) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Art.'' each place it appears, except the 
     first place it appears;
       (B) in the item relating to section 887a, by striking 
     ``Resistence'' and inserting ``Resistance'';
       (C) in the item relating to section 908, by striking ``of 
     the United States-Loss'' and inserting ``of United States-
     Loss,'';
       (D) in the item relating to section 909, by striking ``of 
     the'' and inserting ``of''; and
       (E) in the item relating to section 909a, by striking the 
     second period at the end.
       (19) The matters to be inserted by section 5541 (130 Stat. 
     2965) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``Art.'' each place it appears;
       (B) by striking ``825.'' and inserting ``825a.''; and
       (C) by striking ``830.'' and inserting ``830a.''.
       (e) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2016.--Effective as of November 25, 2015, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 574 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 831) is amended by striking ``1785 note'' both 
     places it appears and inserting ``1788 note''.
       (f) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015.--Effective as of December 19, 2014, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 1044(a)(2)(A) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
     113-291; 128 Stat. 3493) is amended by striking ``October 
     28'' and inserting ``September 30''.
       (g) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011.--Effective as of January 7, 2011, and as if included 
     therein as enacted, section 896(b) of the Ike Skelton 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
     (Public Law 111-398; 124 Stat. 4315) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Chapter'' and inserting 
     ``Subchapter II of chapter''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``chapter'' and inserting 
     ``subchapter''.
       (h) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2009.--Section 943(d)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
     110-417), as amended by section 1205(c)(2) of Public Law 112-
     81 (125 Stat. 1623), is further amended by striking the 
     second period at the end of the first sentence.
       (i) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2004.--Section 1022(e) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 271 
     note) is amended by striking ``section 1004(j)'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subsection and inserting 
     ``section 284(i) of title 10, United States Code''.
       (j) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--
     For purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of 
     this Act other than this section, the amendments made by this 
     section shall be treated as having been enacted immediately 
     before any such amendments by other provisions of this Act.

     SEC. 1062. WORKFORCE ISSUES FOR RELOCATION OF MARINES TO 
                   GUAM.

       (a) In General.--Section 6(b) of the Joint Resolution 
     entitled ``A Joint Resolution to approve the `Covenant To 
     Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
     Political Union With the United States of America', and for 
     other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (48 U.S.C. 1806(b)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Numerical Limitations for Nonimmigrant Workers.--An 
     alien, if otherwise qualified, may seek admission to Guam or 
     to the Commonwealth during the transition program as a 
     nonimmigrant worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)) 
     without counting against the numerical limitations set forth 
     in section 214(g) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)). An alien, 
     if otherwise qualified, may, before October 1, 2020, be 
     admitted under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of such Act for a 
     period of up to 3 years (which may be extended by the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security before October 1, 2020, for an 
     additional period or periods not to exceed 3 years each) to 
     perform services or labor on Guam pursuant to any agreement 
     entered into by a prime contractor or subcontractor calling 
     for services or labor required for performance of the 
     contract or subcontract in direct support of all military-
     funded construction, repairs, renovation, and facilities 
     services, or to perform services or labor on Guam as a 
     health-care worker, notwithstanding the requirement of such 
     section that the service or labor be temporary. This 
     subsection does not apply to any employment to be performed 
     outside of Guam or the Commonwealth.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date that is 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1063. PROTECTION OF SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHTS OF MILITARY 
                   FAMILIES.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Protect Our Military Families' 2nd Amendment Rights Act''.
       (b) Residency of Spouses of Members of the Armed Forces to 
     Be Determined on the Same Basis as the Residency of Such 
     Members for Purposes of Federal Firearms Laws.--Section 
     921(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(b) For purposes of this chapter:
       ``(1) A member of the Armed Forces on active duty and the 
     spouse of such a member are residents of the State in which 
     the permanent duty station of the member is located.
       ``(2) The spouse of such a member may satisfy the 
     identification document requirements of this chapter by 
     presenting--
       ``(A) the military identification card issued to the 
     spouse; and
       ``(B) the official Permanent Change of Station Orders 
     annotating the spouse as being authorized for collocation, or 
     an official letter from the commanding officer of the member 
     verifying that the member and the spouse are collocated at 
     the permanent duty station of the member.''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (b) 
     shall apply to conduct engaged in after the 6-month period 
     that begins with the date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1064. TRANSFER OF SURPLUS FIREARMS TO CORPORATION FOR 
                   THE PROMOTION OF RIFLE PRACTICE AND FIREARMS 
                   SAFETY.

       (a) In General.--Section 40728(h) of title 36, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the 
     Secretary may transfer'' and inserting ``The Secretary shall 
     transfer'';
       (2) by striking ``The Secretary shall determine a 
     reasonable schedule for the transfer of such surplus 
     pistols.''; and
       (3) by striking paragraph (2).
       (b) Termination of Pilot Program.--Section 1087 of the 
     National Defense Authorization

[[Page H5590]]

     Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1012) 
     is amended by striking subsections (b) and (c).

     SEC. 1065. NATIONAL GUARD ACCESSIBILITY TO DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE ISSUED UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Review Required.--Not later than one year after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
     in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, 
     the Commander of United States Northern Command, and the 
     Commander of United States Pacific Command, shall conduct an 
     efficiency and effectiveness review of the governance 
     structure, coordination processes, documentation, and timing 
     and deadline requirements stipulated in Department of Defense 
     Policy Memorandum 15-002, entitled ``Guidance for the 
     Domestic Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems'' and dated 
     February 17, 2015. In conducting the review, the Secretary 
     shall take into account information and data points provided 
     by State governors and State adjutant generals in assessing 
     the efficiency and effectiveness of accessing Department of 
     Defense issued unmanned aircraft systems for State and 
     National Guard operations.
       (b) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
     the completion of the review required by subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall submit the review to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1066. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Naval aviation was born in the United States when 
     Eugene Ely launched from the deck of a United States Navy 
     ship on November 14, 1910, in a Curtiss Model D.
       (2) In 1915, Cpt. Henry C. Mustin made the first catapult 
     launch and first take off in a ship underway in a Curtiss 
     Model AB-2, beginning a century of technological advancements 
     that have led to today's Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch 
     System which has replaced the steam pistons with powerful 
     magnets to launch jet aircraft.
       (3) In 1924, Lt. Dixie Kiefer made the first night catapult 
     launch in a Vought UO-1 in San Diego harbor, leading to 
     today's aircraft carriers being a floating city at sea with a 
     24-hour airport.
       (4) The first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, USS 
     Enterprise (CVN 65), was commissioned in 1961, ushering in a 
     new era of the world's most dominant and capable warships.
       (5) In 2013, the first of the next generation of aircraft 
     carriers, Gerald R. Ford, was christened, marking a 
     continuation of the innovative naval aviation spirit, 
     technological advancement, and war fighting capabilities of 
     aircraft carriers.
       (6) In 2013, aircraft carrier USS George Washington (CVN 
     73) provided humanitarian assistance, medical supplies, food, 
     and water to the victims in the Philippines of Super Typhoon 
     Haiyan, once again demonstrating versatility of the aircraft 
     carrier for combat, diplomatic and humanitarian operations.
       (7) For over 70 years, aircraft carriers have been employed 
     in every major and many smaller conflicts, including World 
     War II, Korea, Vietnam, Grenada, Lebanon, Libya, Operation 
     Desert Storm, Afghanistan, Iraq, and the fight against 
     terrorism.
       (8) The United States Navy's aircraft carriers are a 
     cornerstone of the Nation's ability to project its power and 
     strength.
       (9) When aircraft carriers sail the globe they are a 
     statement of national purpose and a symbol of the Nation's 
     industrial strength, competitive edge, and economic 
     prosperity.
       (10) Aircraft carriers are 4.5 acres of sovereign United 
     States territory enabling the Nation to reduce its dependency 
     on other nations while it pursues its national security 
     interests.
       (11) Aircraft carriers enable the United States Armed 
     Forces to carry out operations from international waters, 
     avoiding the complications of securing fly-over rights and 
     land-base rights from other nations.
       (12) Aircraft carriers are a modern, very mobile United 
     States military base complete with airfield, hospital, and 
     communications systems from which the United States can 
     strike at its enemies.
       (13) Over 90 percent of world trade is moved by sea, 
     including much of the world's gas and oil supply, and 
     aircraft carriers and their strike forces are constantly on 
     patrol in vital regions of the world to keep shipping lanes 
     open and protect the interests of the United States and its 
     allies.
       (14) There are more than 2,450 companies in 48 States and 
     over 364 congressional districts, and more than 13,100 
     shipbuilders who proudly contribute to the construction and 
     maintenance of these complex and technologically advanced 
     ships.
       (15) Thousands of members of the United States Armed Forces 
     have served the Nation aboard aircraft carriers in war, 
     peace, and times of crisis.
       (16) When crisis occurs the first question that comes to 
     everyone's lips is ``Where is the nearest carrier?''.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) United States aircraft carriers are the preeminent 
     power projection platform and have served the Nation's 
     interests in times of war and in times of peace, adapting to 
     the immediate and ever-changing nature of the world for over 
     90 years;
       (2) aircraft carrier contributions and heritage should be 
     celebrated; and
       (3) the people of the United States should be encouraged to 
     celebrate the history of aircraft carriers in the United 
     States and to always remember the vital role these vessels 
     play in defending the Nation's freedom.

     SEC. 1067. NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF TERMS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     or any court order, at the request of the Chairman of the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the Senate or the House of 
     Representatives or the Chairman of the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate or the House of Representatives, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall make available (in an 
     appropriate manner with respect to classified information, if 
     necessary) to such chairman a settlement agreement (including 
     a consent decree) in any civil action involving the 
     Department of Defense, a military department, or a Defense 
     Agency, if, in the opinion of the Secretary, in consultation 
     with the Attorney General, the terms of the settlement 
     agreement affect the congressional authorization or 
     appropriations process with respect to the Department of 
     Defense.
       (b) Consultation Requirement.--Before making a request 
     under subsection (a)--
       (1) the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services or the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate shall consult with 
     the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; 
     and
       (2) the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services or the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     shall consult with the Chairman of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. 1068. SENSE OF CONGRESS RECOGNIZING THE UNITED STATES 
                   NAVY SEABEES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) On March 5, 1942, Navy Construction Battalion personnel 
     were officially named Seabees by the Navy Department.
       (2) The purpose of the Navy Seabees is to build, maintain, 
     and support base infrastructure in remote locations for the 
     Navy and Marine Corps, while simultaneously being capable of 
     engaging in combat operations.
       (3) The Navy Seabees dual-role is exemplified by the Seabee 
     motto Construimus, Batuimus: We Build, We Fight.
       (4) Throughout their history, the Navy Seabees have 
     answered the call of duty to protect the United States and 
     its democratic values both in times of war and peace.
       (5) The Navy Seabees support United States national 
     security at combatant commands worldwide, through the 
     construction, both on land and underwater, of bases, 
     airfields, roads, bridges, and other infrastructure.
       (6) Members of the Navy Seabees and their families have 
     demonstrated unmatched courage and dedication to sacrifice 
     for the United States, from service in World War II, Korea, 
     and Vietnam to the recent conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
     elsewhere.
       (7) The Navy Seabees exhibit honor, personal courage, and 
     commitment as they sacrifice their personal comfort to keep 
     the United States safe from threats.
       (8) The Navy Seabees continue to display strength, 
     professionalism, and bravery in the all-volunteer force.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress recognizes the United 
     States Navy Seabees and the Navy personnel who comprise the 
     construction force for the Navy and the Marine Corps as 
     critical elements in deterring conflict, overcoming 
     aggression, and rebuilding democratic institutions.

     SEC. 1069. RECOGNITION OF THE UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
                   OPERATIONS COMMAND.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) On April 16, 1987, Congress required the establishment 
     of a Special Operations Command, which was to be an elite 
     fighting force drawn from all of the branches of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (2) As a headquarters organization, USSOCOM comprises four 
     service-component commands, consisting of the United States 
     Army Special Operations Command, United States Naval Special 
     Warfare Command, United States Marine Corps Forces Special 
     Operations Command, and United States Air Force Special 
     Operations Command, and includes various sub-unified 
     commands.
       (3) Each service-component command has sub-component 
     commands consisting of--
       (A) Army Special Forces (Green Berets), Rangers, Special 
     Operations Aviation, Civil Affairs, Military Information 
     Support Operations;
       (B) Navy SEALS and Special Warfare Combatant-Craft Crewmen;
       (C) Air Force Commandos and Special Tactics Airmen;
       (D) Marine Raiders; and
       (E) other Joint Special Operations Forces;
       (4) USSOCOM protects and defends the United States in a 
     variety of ways, including direct action, special 
     reconnaissance, unconventional warfare, foreign internal 
     defense, civil affairs operations, counterterrorism, military 
     information support operations, counter-proliferation of 
     weapons of mass destruction, security force assistance, 
     counterinsurgency, hostage rescue and recovery, foreign 
     humanitarian assistance, and other missions as assigned.
       (5) USSOCOM has an unequaled ability to analyze and respond 
     to terrorist threats and USSOCOM has led many successful 
     missions globally.
       (6) Many USSOCOM missions are classified, so the American 
     people may never know the details and extent of the bravery 
     of Special Operations Forces, but a sample of missions 
     provide a glimpse into the bravery and talents of these 
     members of the Armed Forces:
       (A) On May 2, 2011, Osama bin Laden was killed in a special 
     operations mission in Pakistan, for which the outstanding men 
     and women in America's intelligence and Armed Forces, 
     especially those from SOCOM, remained focused on bringing 
     Osama bin Laden to justice, and on May 2, 2011, justice was 
     done.
       (B) On April 12, 2009, the Maersk Alabama was rescued 
     unharmed in a special operations

[[Page H5591]]

     mission in the Indian Ocean, after a five-day standoff 
     between the United States Navy and Somalian pirates.
       (C) On April 1, 2003, Jessica Lynch, a United States Army 
     clerk taken prisoner for nine days in Iraq, was rescued by 
     Special Operations Forces during a night raid in the hospital 
     where she was being held.
       (D) On December 13, 2003, in Operation Red Dawn, Special 
     Operations Forces captured deposed Iraqi president Saddam 
     Hussein, who was hiding in a spider hole.
       (E) On January 17, 1991, as Operation Desert Storm began, 
     Special Operations Forces slipped hundreds of miles into Iraq 
     to identify Iraqi Scud missiles as targets for American 
     fighter jets.
       (F) On December 20, 1989, in Operation Just Cause and 
     Operation Nifty Package, Special Operations Forces ventured 
     into Panama to bring its then President Manuel Noriega to 
     justice for drug-trafficking.
       (7) Approximately 70,000 Regular component, National Guard, 
     and reserve component personnel from all four services and 
     Department of Defense civilians are assigned to USSOCOM 
     headquarters in Tampa, its four service-component commands, 
     and eight sub-unified commands.
       (8) The heroism, skill, and patriotism of USSOCOM personnel 
     and their families are without parallel.
       (9) The responsibilities of USSOCOM are growing and its 
     mission is now and will continue to be central to the defense 
     of the United States in future decades.
       (10) The sacrifices of many, the service of all, and the 
     talents of the Special Operations Forces are cause for 
     confidence and optimism.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and civilians who, 
     together with their family members, comprise the United 
     States Special Operations Forces community should be honored 
     for their service and commitment to keeping the United States 
     safe.

     SEC. 1070. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING WORLD WAR I.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The United States declared war against Germany on April 
     6, 1917, to redress wrongs, including Germany's resumption of 
     unrestricted submarine warfare, violation of United States 
     neutrality, and denial of freedom of the seas to 
     nonbelligerent nations.
       (2) The United States associated itself with the allied 
     powers of the United Kingdom and its Commonwealth, France and 
     its colonies, Russia, Italy, and Japan to defeat the German 
     Empire
       (3) The United States Army, consisting of the Regular Army, 
     National Guard, and Reserve Corps, with the addition of 
     volunteers and the draftees of the National Army, underwent a 
     transformation from a frontier constabulary and coastal 
     defense force to a modern land warfare force.
       (4) Early 20th century military and technological advances 
     resulted in the incorporation of motor transport, aviation, 
     anti-aircraft artillery, tanks, chemical weapons, aircraft 
     carriers, submarines and anti-submarine warfare, sonar, 
     underwater mines, and other innovations into the military 
     arsenal of the United States.
       (5) The need to quickly build a military strength of four 
     million soldiers and half a million sailors required the 
     mobilization of the human resources of the United States, 
     during which members of diverse ethnic groups, races, and 
     creeds, both native-born and immigrant, forged a new American 
     identity.
       (6) The United States Army maintained its defense of 
     American seacoasts, southern border, and overseas 
     possessions, while the Army American Expeditionary Forces 
     deployed ``Over There'' for combat operations in Europe 
     starting in June 1917.
       (7) By the end of World War I, almost two million members 
     of the Army served overseas in the American Expeditionary 
     Forces; Whereas, during World War I, the United States Navy 
     increased in strength from approximately 69,000 officers and 
     sailors and 342 vessels to more than 533,000 officers and 
     sailors and 774 vessels.
       (8) The Navy operated in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, 
     and the North and Mediterranean Seas in cooperation with 
     allied navies.
       (9) The Navy began the fight against the German U-boat 
     menace by dispatching destroyers, which eventually totaled 70 
     in number, and 169 other vessels to counter the submarine 
     threat.
       (10) Navy vessels escorted troop transports carrying 
     1,250,000 passengers and escorted supply transports carrying 
     27 percent of all cargo shipped to Europe.
       (11) The Navy deployed five batteries of large-caliber 
     battleship guns mounted on railroad trains to France for 
     service as long-range artillery for the Army;.
       (12) The United States Coast Guard transferred to the 
     operational control of the Navy, and augmented that service 
     with approximately 5,000 officers and sailors, 47 vessels of 
     all types, and 279 shore stations;.
       (13) The United States Marine Corps, with an eventual 
     wartime strength of 75,000 officers and men, detached two 
     regiments and a machine gun battalion to constitute an 
     infantry brigade integrated into the Army's 2d Division for 
     service in France;.
       (14) On July 4, 1917, Colonel Charles E. Stanton, one of 
     the officers on the staff of General John Pershing, commander 
     of the American Expeditionary Forces in Europe, famously 
     announced America's commitment to the fight when Colonel 
     Stanton proclaimed upon his arrival in France, ``Lafayette, 
     we are here!''.
       (15) Whereas the American Expeditionary Forces formed three 
     field armies, nine corps and forty-three divisions, plus 
     various units of the Services of Supply.
       (16) The American Expeditionary Forces suffered 244,000 
     casualties in fighting in thirteen named campaigns in World 
     War I;.
       (17) Participation in World War I resulted in the 
     completion of a period of reform and professionalism that 
     transformed the Armed Forces from a small dispersed 
     organization to a modern industrialized fighting force 
     capable of global reach and influence.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) honors the memory of the fallen heroes who wore the 
     uniform of the United States Armed Forces during World War I;
       (2) commends the Unites States Armed Forces for preserving 
     and protecting the interests of the United States during 
     World War I;
       (3) commends the brave members of the United States Armed 
     Forces for their efforts in ``making the world safe for 
     democracy,'' and preserving the founding principles of the 
     United States at home and abroad during World War I;
       (4) commends the brave members of the United States Armed 
     Forces for preserving and protecting the sea lanes of 
     commerce and communications during World War I that ensured 
     the continued prosperity of the United States;
       (5) celebrates and congratulates the United States Army, 
     Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard during the 
     commemoration of the centennial of World War I for a job well 
     done; and
       (6) calls on all people of the United States to join in the 
     commemoration of the centennial of World War I in events 
     throughout the United States and overseas.

     SEC. 1071. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE 
                   NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CHALLENGE PROGRAM.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Fewer than 30 percent of youth in the United States 
     qualify for military service, either because of poor physical 
     health, a criminal record, or lack of a high school degree.
       (2) The National Guard Youth Challenge Program provides the 
     Department of Defense an opportunity to work with State and 
     local governments to engage with the youth of the nation, 
     providing military-based training, the opportunity to earn a 
     high school degree, and high physical fitness standards.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it 
     is critical to allocate the necessary resources to the 
     National Guard Youth Challenge Program of the Department of 
     Defense as it plays a critical role in preparing the next 
     generation of qualified youth for military service.

     SEC. 1072. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NATIONAL PURPLE HEART 
                   RECOGNITION DAY.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On August 7, 1782, during the Revolutionary War, 
     General George Washington established what is now known as 
     the Purple Heart medal when he issued an order establishing 
     the Badge of Military Merit.
       (2) The Badge of Military Merit was designed in the shape 
     of a heart in purple cloth or silk.
       (3) While the award of the Badge of Military Merit ceased 
     with the end of the Revolutionary War, the Purple Heart medal 
     was authorized in 1932 as the official successor decoration 
     to the Badge of Military Merit.
       (4) The Purple Heart medal is the oldest United States 
     military decoration in present use.
       (5) The Purple Heart medal is awarded in the name of the 
     President of the United States to recognize members of the 
     Armed Forces who are killed or wounded in action against an 
     enemy of the United States or are killed or wounded while 
     held as prisoners of war.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) supports the goals and ideals of National Purple Heart 
     Recognition Day; and
       (2) encourages all people of the United States--
       (A) to learn about the history of the Purple Heart medal;
       (B) to honor recipients of the Purple Heart medal; and
       (C) to conduct appropriate ceremonies, activities, and 
     programs to demonstrate support for people who have been 
     awarded the Purple Heart medal.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

     SEC. 1101. EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DOMESTIC 
                   DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR 
                   RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1125 of subtitle 
     B of title XI of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking 
     ``During fiscal years 2017 and 2018,'' and inserting ``During 
     each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021,''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1125 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of the 
     Department of Defense civilian workforce during the most 
     recently ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1102. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE VOLUNTARY 
                   SEPARATION INCENTIVE PAY FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--Section 1107 of subtitle A of title XI of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
     2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''.

[[Page H5592]]

       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2018 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1107 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of the 
     Department of Defense civilian workforce during the most 
     recently ended fiscal year;
       (2) the number of employees offered voluntary separation 
     incentive payments during such fiscal year by operation of 
     such section; and
       (3) the number of such employees that accepted such 
     payments.

     SEC. 1103. ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SCIENCE AND 
                   TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORIES.

       Section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2487; 10 
     U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(20) The Naval Medical Research Center.
       ``(21) The Joint Warfighting Analysis Center.''.

     SEC. 1104. ONE YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL 
                   LIMITATION ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE 
                   LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
                   EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

       Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
     (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently 
     amended by section 1137 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2460), is amended by striking ``through 2017'' and inserting 
     ``through 2018''.

     SEC. 1105. APPOINTMENT OF RETIRED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
                   TO POSITIONS IN OR UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) In General.--During fiscal years 2017 through 2021, in 
     addition to the authority provided under paragraphs (1) and 
     (2) of subsection (b) of section 3326 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and consistent with the requirements of such 
     section, a retired member of the armed forces may be 
     appointed under such subsection if--
       (1) the Department of Defense has been granted direct hire 
     authority to fill the position;
       (2) the appointment is to fill an emergency appointment for 
     which the Secretary concerned determines competitive 
     appointment is not appropriate or reasonable due to the need 
     to fill the emergency need as quickly as possible; or
       (3) the appointment is for a highly qualified expert under 
     section 9903 of such title.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives including--
       (1) with respect to the waiver process under section 
     3326(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code--
       (A) the number of individuals appointed during the most 
     recently ended fiscal year under such process; and
       (B) the Department of Defense's plan on the use of such 
     process during the fiscal year in which the report is 
     submitted;
       (2) the number of individuals--
       (A) appointed under the authority provided by subsection 
     (a) during the most recently ended fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be appointed under such subsection during 
     the fiscal year in which the briefing is provided; and
       (3) the impact of subsection (a) on the management of the 
     Department civilian workforce during the most recently ended 
     fiscal year.

     SEC. 1106. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
                   EXPERTS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WORKFORCE.

       (a) In General.--Section 1110 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Defense Agencies 
     or the applicable military Department'' and inserting ``a 
     Department of Defense component'';
       (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``the Defense 
     Agencies'' and inserting ``each Department of Defense 
     component listed in subsection (f)(2) other than the 
     Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the 
     Department of the Air Force'';
       (3) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by striking ``any Defense Agency or military 
     department'' and inserting ``any Department of Defense 
     component''; and
       (B) by striking ``such Defense Agency or military 
     department'' and inserting ``such Department of Defense 
     component''; and
       (4) by striking subsection (f) and inserting the following:
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Employee.--The term `employee' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code.
       ``(2) Department of defense component.--The term 
     `Department of Defense component' means the following:
       ``(A) A Defense Agency.
       ``(B) The Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff.
       ``(C) The Joint Staff.
       ``(D) A combatant command.
       ``(E) The Office of the Inspector General of the Department 
     of Defense.
       ``(F) A Field Activity of the Department of Defense.
       ``(G) The Department of the Army.
       ``(H) The Department of the Navy.
       ``(I) The Department of the Air Force.
       ``(J) Any organizational entity within the Department of 
     Defense that is not described in subparagraphs (A) through 
     (I).''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives including--
       (1) a description of the effect of section 1110 of subtitle 
     A of title XI of the National Defense Authorization Act, 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328), as amended by subsection (a), on the 
     management of the Department of Defense civilian workforce 
     during the most recently ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY PERSONNEL 
                   FLEXIBILITIES FOR DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
                   BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST 
                   FACILITIES BASE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1132 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2457) is amended by striking 
     ``and 2018'' and inserting ``through 2021''.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
     of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
     Representatives including--
       (1) a description of the effect of such section 1132 (as 
     amended by subsection (a)) on the management of civilian 
     personnel at domestic defense industrial base facilities and 
     Major Range and Test Facilities Base during the most recently 
     ended fiscal year; and
       (2) the number of employees--
       (A) hired under such section during such fiscal year; and
       (B) expected to be hired under such section during the 
     fiscal year in which the briefing is provided.

     SEC. 1108. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
                   ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO 
                   CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT 
                   ZONE.

       Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency 
     Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War 
     on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 
     120 Stat. 443), as added by section 1102 of the Duncan Hunter 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
     (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
     amended by section 1133 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2459), is further amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
     ``2019''.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

     SEC. 1201. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR 
                   COALITION FORCES SUPPORTING CERTAIN UNITED 
                   STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

       Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394), as most 
     recently amended by section 1201 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2473), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2018'';
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``during the period 
     beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 
     2017'' and inserting ``during the period beginning on October 
     1, 2017, and ending on December 31, 2018''; and
       (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2017'' 
     and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 1202. MODIFICATION TO SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND.

       (a) In General.--Effective as of October 1, 2017, paragraph 
     (1) of section 114(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``$2,500,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$2,000,000,000''.
       (b) Increase in Size of Fund.--Such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The size'' and 
     inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), the size''; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Of the amount available 
     in the Special Defense Acquisition Fund in any fiscal year 
     after fiscal year 2016, $500,000,000'' and inserting ``The 
     size of the Special Defense Acquisition Fund in any fiscal 
     year after fiscal year 2017 may exceed the dollar amount 
     limitation described in paragraph (1) by an amount not to 
     exceed $500,000,000 and such excess amount''.

     SEC. 1203. MODIFICATION TO MINISTRY OF DEFENSE ADVISOR 
                   AUTHORITY.

       (a) Ministry of Defense Advisor Authority.--Subsection (a) 
     of section 332 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting ``and members of the armed forces'' after 
     ``civilian employees of the Department of Defense''.
       (b) Training of Personnel of Foreign Ministries With 
     Security Missions.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``to assign civilian 
     employees of the Department of Defense and members of the 
     armed forces as advisors or trainers'' after ``carry out a 
     program''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)(B)--
       (A) by striking ``employees'' in each place it appears and 
     inserting ``advisors or trainers''; and
       (B) by striking ``each assigned employee's activities'' and 
     inserting ``the activities of each assigned advisor or 
     trainer''.

[[Page H5593]]

       (c) Congressional Notice.--Subsection (c) of such section 
     is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
     ``or a member of the armed forces'' after ``a civilian 
     employee of the Department of Defense'';
       (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``employee as an 
     advisor'' and inserting ``advisor or trainer''; and
       (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``employee'' and 
     inserting ``advisor or trainer''.

     SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY OF 
                   FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES.

       Subsection (c) of section 333 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) Institutional capacity building to organize, 
     administer, employ, manage, maintain, sustain, or oversee 
     national security forces.'';
       (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or the Department of 
     State'' after ``Department of Defense'';
       (3) in paragraph (4)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``Institutional capacity 
     building'' and inserting ``Respect for civilian control of 
     the military'';
       (B) in the first sentence, by striking ``that the 
     Department is already undertaking, or will undertake as part 
     of the program'' and all that follows and inserting ``that 
     the Department of Defense or another department or agency is 
     already undertaking, or will undertake as part of the 
     security sector assistance provided to the foreign country 
     concerned, a program to enhance the capacity of such foreign 
     country to exercise responsible civilian control of the 
     national security forces of such foreign country.''; and
       (C) by striking the second sentence; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) Institutional capacity building.--In order to meet 
     the requirement in paragraph (2)(C) with respect to a 
     particular foreign country under a program under subsection 
     (a), the Secretary shall certify, prior to the initiation of 
     the program, that the Department of Defense or another 
     department or agency is already undertaking, or will 
     undertake as part of the security sector assistance provided 
     to the foreign country concerned, a program of institutional 
     capacity building with appropriate institutions of such 
     foreign country to enhance the capacity of such foreign 
     country to organize, administer, employ, manage, maintain, 
     sustain, or oversee the national security forces of such 
     foreign country.''.

     SEC. 1205. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY ON 
                   TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL MILITARY 
                   FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL EXERCISES.

       (a) One-Year Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1251 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
     (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1070; 10 U.S.C. 2282 note), as 
     amended by section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2489), is further amended--
       (1) by striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2019''; and
       (2) by striking ``fiscal years 2016 through 2018'' and 
     inserting ``for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and 
     ending on December 31, 2019''.
       (b) Regulations for Administration of Incremental 
     Expenses.--Subsection (d) of such section, as so amended, is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Regulations.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
     regulations for payment of incremental expenses under 
     subsection (a). Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit the 
     regulations to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
     and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives.
       ``(B) Procedures to be included.--The regulations required 
     under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
       ``(i) Procedures to limit the payment of incremental 
     expenses to developing countries determined pursuant to 
     subsection (c) to be eligible for the provision of training 
     under subsection (a), except in the case of exceptional 
     circumstances as specified in the regulations.
       ``(ii) Procedures to require reimbursement of incremental 
     expenses from non-developing countries determined pursuant to 
     subsection (c) to be eligible for the provision of training 
     under subsection (a), except in the case of exceptional 
     circumstances as specified in the regulations.
       ``(C) Developing country defined.--In this paragraph, the 
     term `developing country' has the meaning given such term in 
     section 301(4) of title 10, United States Code.''.
       (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Such section, as 
     so amended, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``that'' and inserting 
     ``than'';
       (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``section 2282'' and 
     inserting ``chapter 16''; and
       (3) in subsection (g), by striking ``means'' and all that 
     follows and inserting ``has the meaning given such term in 
     section 301(5) of title 10, United States Code.''.

     SEC. 1206. EXTENSION OF PARTICIPATION IN AND SUPPORT OF THE 
                   INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE COLLEGE.

       Subsection (c) of section 1243 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2516; 10 U.S.C. 1050 note) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``Fiscal Year 2017'' and 
     inserting ``Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018''; and
       (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     years 2017 and 2018''.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

     SEC. 1211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE 
                   ARTICLES AND PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE 
                   MILITARY AND SECURITY FORCES OF AFGHANISTAN.

       (a) Extension of Expiration.--Subsection (h) of section 
     1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1992), as most 
     recently amended by section 1213 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2478), is further amended by striking ``December 
     31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
       (b) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such 
     section, as so amended, is further amended by striking 
     ``December 31, 2017,'' in each place it appears and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.

     SEC. 1212. REPORT ON UNITED STATES STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than February 15, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that describes the United States strategy 
     in Afghanistan.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of United States assumptions, security 
     interests, and corresponding objectives in Afghanistan.
       (2) A description of how current military efforts align to 
     such objectives and, given current or projected progress, a 
     realistic prognosis for a timeline necessary to achieve such 
     objectives.
       (3) An explanation of the conditions necessary for the 
     Afghan National Defense and Security Forces to become self-
     sufficient.
       (4) A description of the projected long-term and 
     sustainable United States role in Afghanistan.
       (5) A description of the threat of harm to United States 
     forces in Afghanistan and a justification based on the threat 
     to United States interests.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1213. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR 
                   REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR 
                   SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES MILITARY 
                   OPERATIONS.

       (a) Extension.--
       (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
     (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended 
     by section 1218(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2482), is 
     further amended--
       (A) by striking ``October 1, 2016'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2017''; and
       (B) by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.
       (2) Report required.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the expenditure of funds 
     under the authority in subsection (a)(2) of section 1233 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
     (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), including a description 
     of the following:
       (i) The purpose for which such funds were expended.
       (ii) Each organization on whose behalf such funds were 
     expended, including the amount expended on such organization 
     and the number of members of such organization supported by 
     such amount.
       (iii) Any limitation imposed on the expenditure of funds 
     under such subsection, including on any recipient of funds or 
     any use of funds expended.
       (B) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     paragraph, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (i) the congressional defense committees; and
       (ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate.
       (b) Notice Requirement.--Section 1232(b)(6) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
     110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 
     1218(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2484), is further 
     amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.
       (c) Limitation on Reimbursement Pending Certification.--
     Section 1227(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2001), as 
     most recently amended by section 1218(f) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2484), is further amended by striking 
     ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
       (d) Additional Limitations on Reimbursement.--
       (1) Extension of limitations on amounts.--Subsection (d)(1) 
     of section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as most 
     recently amended by section 1218(c) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2483), is further amended--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``$1,100,000,000'' 
     and inserting ``$1,000,000,000'';
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``$900,000,000'' 
     and inserting ``$800,000,000'';
       (C) by striking ``October 1, 2016'' in each place it 
     appears and inserting ``October 1, 2017''; and

[[Page H5594]]

       (D) by striking ``December 31, 2017'' in each place it 
     appears and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
       (2) Extension of limitation on amounts eligible for 
     waiver.--Subsection (g) of section 1218 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2484) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``October 1, 2016'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2017''; and
       (B) by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

     SEC. 1221. REPORT ON UNITED STATES STRATEGY IN SYRIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report that describes the strategy of the United 
     States in Syria.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
       (1) A description of the key security and geopolitical 
     interests, objectives, and long-term goals in Syria for the 
     United States and indicators for the effectiveness of efforts 
     to achieve such objectives and goals.
       (2) A description of United States assumptions regarding 
     the current intelligence picture, the roles and ambitions of 
     other countries, and the interests of relevant Syrian groups 
     with respect to such objectives.
       (3) A description of how current military and diplomatic 
     efforts in Syria align with such objectives, and a realistic 
     projection of the timeline necessary to achieve such 
     objectives.
       (4) The resources required to achieve such objectives.
       (5) An analysis of the threats posed to United States 
     interests by Russian and Iranian influences in Syria, as well 
     as the threats posed to such interests by the Islamic State 
     of Iraq and the Levant, Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, and other 
     violent extremist organizations in Syria.
       (6) A description of long-term and sustainable United 
     States involvement in Syria and the conclusion of the current 
     United States effort in Syria.
       (7) A description of the coordination between the 
     Department of Defense and the Department of State regarding 
     the transition from military operations to stabilization 
     programming, including a description of how local governance 
     and civil society will be restored in areas secured through 
     United States military operations in Syria.
       (8) A description of the threat of harm to United States 
     forces in Syria and a justification based on the threat to 
     United States interests.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
                   ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ 
                   AND THE LEVANT.

       (a) Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3559), as most recently amended by section 1222 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended by 
     striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 
     2019''.
       (b) Quarterly Progress Report.--Subsection (d) of such 
     section is further amended--
       (1) in the first sentence of the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by adding at the end before the period the following: 
     ``, which shall be provided in unclassified form with a 
     classified annex if necessary''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(12) An assessment of--
       ``(A) security in liberated areas in Iraq;
       ``(B) the extent to which security forces trained and 
     equipped, directly or indirectly, through the Office of 
     Security Cooperation in Iraq (OSC-I) are prepared to provide 
     post-conflict stabilization and security in such liberated 
     areas; and
       ``(C) the effectiveness of security forces in the post-
     conflict environment and an identification of which such 
     forces will provide post-conflict stabilization and security 
     in such liberated areas.''.
       (c) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017'' and inserting ``National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018'';
       (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2018''; and
       (3) by striking ``$630,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$1,269,000,000''.
       (d) Sense of Congress.--Recognizing the important role of 
     the Iraqi Christian militias within the military campaign 
     against ISIL in Iraq, and the specific threat to the 
     Christian population in Iraq, it is the sense of Congress 
     that the United States should provide arms, training, and 
     appropriate equipment to vetted elements of the Nineveh Plain 
     Council.

     SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
                   OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF 
                   SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

       (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 
     1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1631; 10 U.S.C. 113 
     note), as most recently amended by section 1223 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2486), is further amended by 
     striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
     2018''.
       (b) Limitation on Amount.--Subsection (c) of such section 
     is amended--
       (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2018'' ; and
       (2) by striking ``$70,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$42,000,000''.
       (c) Source of Funds.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
     amended by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2018''.

     SEC. 1224. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THREATS POSED BY THE 
                   GOVERNMENT OF IRAN.

       (a) Finding.--Congress expressed concerns over state-
     sponsored threats posed by Iran and over Iran's integration 
     of conventional warfare, cyber and information operations, 
     intelligence operations, and other activities to undermine 
     United States national security interests.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States should counter the malign activities 
     of the Government of Iran;
       (2) the United States should maintain a capable military 
     presence in the Arabian Gulf region to deter, and, if 
     necessary, respond to Iranian aggression;
       (3) the United States should strengthen ballistic missile 
     defense capabilities;
       (4) the United States should ensure freedom of navigation 
     at the Bab al Mandab strait and the Strait of Hormuz; and
       (5) the United States should counter Iranian efforts to 
     illicitly proliferate weapons, including cruise and ballistic 
     missiles.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

     SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION 
                   BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488) is 
     amended by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2018''.

     SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   SOVEREIGNTY OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER 
                   CRIMEA.

       (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended to implement any activity that 
     recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
     Crimea.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
     of the Secretary of State, may waive the restriction on the 
     obligation or expenditure of funds required by subsection (a) 
     if the Secretary--
       (1) determines that to do so is in the national security 
     interest of the United States; and
       (2) submits a notification of the waiver, at the time the 
     waiver is invoked, to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
     and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.

     SEC. 1233. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The Russian Federation, under the leadership of 
     President Vladimir Putin, continues to demonstrate its malign 
     activities to expand its sphere of influence and undermine 
     international norms and institutions both regionally and 
     globally, including through the following activities:
       (A) An assessment of the United States intelligence 
     community stated ``. . .Russian President Vladimir Putin 
     ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. 
     presidential election'', presented in the intelligence 
     community's January 6, 2017, declassified report, ``Assessing 
     Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections''.
       (B) The Russian Federation has interfered in the April 2017 
     election and runoff election in May 2017 of the French 
     Presidential elections. As confirmed by Admiral Mike Rogers, 
     Director of the National Security Agency, at a Senate 
     Committee on Armed Services hearing on May 9, 2017, ``If you 
     look at the French elections . . . we had become aware of 
     Russian activity.''
       (C) The Russian Federation has threatened stability in 
     their sphere of influence. As stated by General Curtis M. 
     Scaparrotti, Commander of the United States European Command, 
     in testimony at a House Committee on Armed Services hearing 
     on March 28, 2017, ``In the east, a resurgent Russia has 
     turned from partner to antagonist. Countries along Russia's 
     periphery, especially Ukraine and Georgia, are under threat 
     from Moscow's malign influence and military aggression.''.
       (D) The Russian Federation has occupied and attempted to 
     annex Crimea from Ukraine.
       (E) The Russian Federation has employed hybrid warfare 
     tactics, including cyber warfare, electronic warfare, and 
     information warfare to gain influence. This includes the use 
     of hybrid tactics in assisting combined Russian-separatist 
     forces in eastern Ukraine and, in 2008, the Russian incursion 
     in Georgia.
       (F) Military intervention in the civil war in Syria.
       (2) Both the Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, and the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph 
     Dunford, highlight the Russian Federation as the number one 
     geo-strategic threat to the United States.
       (3) The Government of the Russian Federation continues its 
     decades' long modernization of its conventional military 
     force with the buildup of large numbers of professionalized 
     forces on Russia's borders with Europe, re-establishing 
     military presence in the Arctic, investment in its nuclear 
     triad, advanced weapons systems, fighter jets, and naval 
     vessels.

[[Page H5595]]

       (4) In June 2016, the Center for Strategic and 
     International Studies released its report, ``Evaluating U.S. 
     Army Force Posture in Europe: Phase II'', which included the 
     recommendation that an Armed Brigade Combat Team and a combat 
     aviation brigade should be permanently assigned to Europe. 
     The report also recommends additional prepositioned equipment 
     in Western Europe.
       (5) In January 2016, the National Commission on the Future 
     of the Army released its findings and recommendations, which 
     included Recommendation 14, calling for permanently 
     stationing an Armored Brigade Combat Team Forward in Europe 
     and Recommendation 15 calling for the conversion of Army 
     Europe Aviation Headquarters to a warfighting mission 
     command.
       (6) In the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), 
     and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328), Congress authorized approximately 
     $5,200,000 for the European Reassurance Initiative, now the 
     European Deterrence Initiative, to reassure partners and 
     allies and begin building a credible deterrence to the 
     Russian Federation through--
       (A) large increases in conventional resources, including 
     additional rotational deployments of United States troops and 
     prepositioning of equipment into Europe; and
       (B) increased funding for unconventional warfare resources, 
     including cyber and special operations forces, and for 
     intelligence and indicators and warnings.
       (b) Statement of Policy.--
       (1) In general.--It is the policy of the United States to 
     develop, implement, and sustain credible deterrence against 
     aggression by the Government of the Russian Federation, in 
     order to enhance regional and global security and stability.
       (2) Conduct of policy.--The policy described in paragraph 
     (1) shall, among other things, be carried out through a 
     comprehensive defense strategy and guidance to outline and 
     resource the necessary defense capabilities in the European 
     theater. Such policy shall include the following:
       (A) Increased United States presence in Europe through 
     additional permanently stationed forces.
       (B) Continued United States presence in Europe through 
     additional rotational forces.
       (C) Increased United States prepositioned military 
     equipment to include logistics enablers and a division 
     headquarters.
       (D) Sufficient and necessary infrastructure additions and 
     improvements throughout the European theater.
       (E) Increased investment and priority to counter 
     unconventional methods of warfare, including sufficient cyber 
     warfare resources, information operations resources, and 
     intelligence resources.
       (F) Effective security cooperation resources and 
     opportunities with partners and allies, including NATO member 
     countries.

     SEC. 1234. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY 
                   ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.

       Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as 
     amended by section 1237 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
     2494), is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$175,000,000 of the 
     funds available for fiscal year 2017 pursuant to subsection 
     (f)(2)'' and inserting ``$75,000,000 of the funds available 
     for fiscal year 2018 pursuant to subsection (f)(3)''; and
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2018''; and
       (ii) by striking ``$100,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$50,000,000'';
       (2) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) For fiscal year 2018, $150,000,000.''; and
       (3) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2018'' 
     and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

     SEC. 1235. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPEN SKIES TREATY.

       (a) Limitation on Conduct of Flights.--
       (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any 
     fiscal year after fiscal year 2017 for the Department of 
     Defense for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, or 
     operation and maintenance, Air Force, may be obligated or 
     expended to conduct any flight during such fiscal year for 
     purposes of implementing the Open Skies Treaty until the date 
     that is seven days after the date on which the President 
     submits to the appropriate congressional committees a plan 
     described in paragraph (2) with respect to such fiscal year.
       (2) Plan described.--The plan described in this paragraph 
     is a plan developed by the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, that contains a description of the objectives 
     for all planned flights described in paragraph (1) during 
     such fiscal year.
       (3) Update.--To the extent necessary and appropriate, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, may update the plan 
     described in paragraph (2) with respect to a fiscal year and 
     submit the updated plan to the appropriate congressional 
     committees.
       (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence and Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives.
       (5) Sunset.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
     terminate on the date that is five years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Prohibition on Activities to Modify United States 
     Aircraft.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for 
     arms control implementation (PE 0305145F) or procurement, Air 
     Force, for digital visual imaging system (BA-05, Line Item 
     #1900) may be obligated or expended to carry out any 
     activities to modify any United States aircraft for purposes 
     of implementing the Open Skies Treaty.
       (c) Open Skies Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``Open Skies Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at 
     Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into force January 1, 
     2002.

     SEC. 1236. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF NUCLEAR 
                   CAPABILITIES OF NATO.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Warsaw Summit Communique, issued on July 9, 2016, 
     by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this section 
     referred to as ``NATO'') clearly defines the need for, and 
     the importance of, the nuclear mission of NATO.
       (2) The Warsaw Summit Communique states--
       (A) with respect to the nuclear deterrence capability of 
     NATO, ``As a means to prevent conflict and war, credible 
     deterrence and defence is essential. Therefore, deterrence 
     and defence, based on an appropriate mix of nuclear, 
     conventional, and missile defence capabilities, remains a 
     core element of our overall strategy. . . The fundamental 
     purpose of NATO's nuclear capability is to preserve peace, 
     prevent coercion, and deter aggression. Nuclear weapons are 
     unique. Any employment of nuclear weapons against NATO would 
     fundamentally alter the nature of a conflict. The 
     circumstances in which NATO might have to use nuclear weapons 
     are extremely remote'';
       (B) with respect to the nature of the nuclear deterrence 
     posture of NATO, ``NATO must continue to adapt its strategy 
     in line with trends in the security environment-including 
     with respect to capabilities and other measures required-to 
     ensure that NATO's overall deterrence and defence posture is 
     capable of addressing potential adversaries' doctrine and 
     capabilities, and that it remains credible, flexible, 
     resilient, and adaptable.''; and
       (C) with respect to the importance of contributions to the 
     nuclear deterrence mission from across the NATO alliance, 
     ``The strategic forces of the Alliance, particularly those of 
     the United States, are the supreme guarantee of the security 
     of the Allies. The independent strategic nuclear forces of 
     the United Kingdom and France have a deterrent role of their 
     own and contribute to the overall security of the Alliance. 
     These Allies' separate centres of decision-making contribute 
     to deterrence by complicating the calculations of potential 
     adversaries. NATO's nuclear deterrence posture also relies, 
     in part, on United States' nuclear weapons forward-deployed 
     in Europe and on capabilities and infrastructure provided by 
     Allies concerned. These Allies will ensure that all 
     components of NATO's nuclear deterrent remain safe, secure, 
     and effective. That requires sustained leadership focus and 
     institutional excellence for the nuclear deterrence mission 
     and planning guidance aligned with 21st century requirements. 
     The Alliance will ensure the broadest possible participation 
     of Allies concerned in their agreed nuclear burden-sharing 
     arrangements.''.
       (3) Secretary of Defense James Mattis, in response to the 
     advance policy questions for his Senate confirmation hearing 
     on January 12, 2017, stated that--
       (A) ``NATO's nuclear deterrence posture relies in part on 
     U.S. nuclear weapons forward-deployed in Europe and on 
     capabilities and infrastructure provided by NATO allies. 
     These capabilities include dual-capable aircraft that 
     contribute to current burden-sharing arrangements within 
     NATO. In general, we must take care to maintain this 
     particular capability, and to modernize it appropriately and 
     in a timely fashion.''; and
       (B) the role of the nuclear weapons of the United States is 
     ``to deter nuclear war and to serve as last resort weapons of 
     self-defense. In this sense, U.S. nuclear weapons are 
     fundamental to our nation's security and have historically 
     provided a deterrent against aggression and security 
     assurance to U.S. allies. A robust, flexible, and survivable 
     U.S. nuclear arsenal underpins the U.S. ability to deploy 
     conventional forces worldwide.''.
       (4) On March 28, 2017, General Curtis Scaparrotti, 
     Commander of the United States European Command and the 
     Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, testified to the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives that ``NATO 
     and U.S. nuclear forces continue to be a vital component of 
     our deterrence. Our modernization efforts are crucial; we 
     must preserve a ready, credible, and safe nuclear 
     capability.''.
       (5) The Russian Federation is currently undergoing 
     significant modernization and recapitalization of all three 
     legs of its nuclear triad, continues to field and modernize a 
     large variety of non-strategic nuclear weapons, and is 
     developing and deploying new and unique nuclear capabilities.
       (6) Russia remains in violation of the INF Treaty due to 
     the development, testing, and, most recently, the operational 
     deployment of ground-launched cruise missiles in violation of 
     the INF Treaty.

[[Page H5596]]

       (7) On March 28, 2017, General Paul Selva, Vice Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, described the security 
     consequences of the deployment of such INF Treaty-violating 
     missiles, testifying to the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives that ``our assessment of the 
     impact is that it more threatens NATO and infrastructure 
     within the European continent than any other...area of the 
     world that we have national interests in or alliance 
     interests in.''.
       (8) On March 28, 2017, General Curtis Scaparrotti, in 
     testimony before the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives, responded to a question asking if Russia 
     intends to return to compliance with the INF Treaty by 
     stating, ``I don't have any indication that they will at this 
     time.''.
       (9) Rhetoric from Russian officials has demonstrated that 
     Moscow has sought to leverage its nuclear arsenal to threaten 
     and intimidate neighboring countries, including members of 
     NATO, as was the case when the Russian Ambassador to Denmark 
     stated, ``Danish warships will be targets for Russian nuclear 
     missiles'' in response to Denmark's potential cooperation in 
     the NATO missile defense system.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the nuclear and conventional deterrence capabilities of 
     NATO are of critical importance to the security of the United 
     States and of the NATO alliance, and must continue to adapt 
     to the changed security environment in Europe;
       (2) the ability of the United States to forward-deploy 
     dual-capable aircraft and nuclear weapons, and of select 
     members of NATO to participate in the nuclear deterrence 
     mission of NATO by hosting forward-deployed nuclear weapons 
     of the United States or operating dual-capable aircraft, is 
     central to the credibility of the nuclear deterrence and 
     defense posture of NATO;
       (3) the strategic forces of the United States, the 
     independent nuclear forces of the United Kingdom and the 
     French Republic, and the dual-capable aircraft operated by 
     the United States and other members of NATO constitute 
     foundational elements of the nuclear deterrence and defense 
     posture of NATO;
       (4) NATO should modernize its nuclear-related 
     infrastructure to ensure the highest-level of safety and 
     security;
       (5) effective deterrence requires NATO to conduct nuclear 
     planning and exercises aligned with 21st century requirements 
     and modernize nuclear-related capabilities and 
     infrastructure, including dual-capable aircraft, command and 
     control networks, and facilities; and
       (6) to ensure the continued credibility of the deterrence 
     and defense posture of NATO, the planned completion of F-35A 
     aircraft development and testing, as well as the delivery of 
     such aircraft to members of NATO, must not be delayed.
       (c) INF Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term ``INF 
     Treaty'' means the Treaty Between the United States of 
     America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the 
     Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
     Missiles, commonly referred to as the ``Intermediate- Range 
     Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty'', signed at Washington December 
     8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.

     SEC. 1237. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT FOR GEORGIA.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Georgia is a valued friend of the United States and has 
     repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to advancing the 
     mutual interests of both countries, including the deployment 
     of Georgian forces as part of the NATO-led International 
     Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan and the 
     Multi-National Force in Iraq.
       (2) The European Deterrence Initiative builds the 
     partnership capacity of Georgia so it can work more closely 
     with the United States and NATO, as well as provide for its 
     own defense.
       (3) In addition to the European Deterrence Initiative, 
     Georgia's participation in the NATO initiative Partnership 
     for Peace is paramount to interoperability with the United 
     States and NATO, and establishing a more peaceful environment 
     in the region.
       (4) Despite the losses suffered, as a NATO partner of ISAF, 
     Georgia is engaged in the Resolute Support Mission in 
     Afghanistan with the second largest contingent on the ground.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) reaffirms United States support for Georgia's 
     sovereignty and territorial integrity within its 
     internationally-recognized borders, and does not recognize 
     the independence of the Abkhazia and South Ossetia regions 
     currently occupied by the Russian Federation; and
       (2) supports continued cooperation between the United 
     States and Georgia and the efforts of the Government of 
     Georgia to provide for the defense of its people and 
     sovereign territory.

     SEC. 1238. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT FOR ESTONIA, LATVIA, 
                   AND LITHUANIA.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania are 
     highly valued allies of the United States, and they have 
     repeatedly demonstrated their commitment to advancing our 
     mutual interests as well as those of the NATO Alliance.
       (2) Operation Atlantic Resolve is a series of exercises and 
     coordinating efforts demonstrating the United States' 
     commitment to its European partners and allies, including the 
     Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, with the 
     shared goal of peace and stability in the region. Operation 
     Atlantic Resolve strengthens communication and understanding, 
     and is an important effort to deter Russian aggression in the 
     region.
       (3) Through Operation Atlantic Resolve, the European 
     Deterrence Initiative undertakes exercises, training, and 
     rotational presence necessary to reassure and integrate our 
     allies, including the Baltic States, into a common defense 
     framework.
       (4) All three Baltic States contributed to the NATO-led 
     International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, 
     sending disproportionate numbers of troops and operating with 
     few caveats. The Baltic States continue to engage in 
     Operation Resolute Support in Afghanistan.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
       (1) reaffirms its support for the principle of collective 
     defense in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty for our 
     NATO allies, including Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania;
       (2) supports the sovereignty, independence, territorial 
     integrity, and inviolability of Estonia, Latvia, and 
     Lithuania as well as their internationally recognized 
     borders, and expresses concerns over increasingly aggressive 
     military maneuvering by the Russian Federation near their 
     borders and airspace;
       (3) expresses concern over and condemns subversive and 
     destabilizing activities by the Russian Federation within the 
     Baltic States; and
       (4) encourages the Administration to further enhance 
     defense cooperation efforts with Estonia, Latvia, and 
     Lithuania and supports the efforts of their Governments to 
     provide for the defense of their people and sovereign 
     territory.

Subtitle E--Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation 
                              Act of 2017

     SEC. 1241. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Intermediate-Range 
     Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1242. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) The 2014, 2015, and 2016 Department of State reports 
     entitled, ``Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, 
     Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and 
     Commitments'', all stated that the United States has 
     determined that ``the Russian Federation is in violation of 
     its obligations under the INF Treaty not to possess, produce, 
     or flight-test a ground-launched cruise missile (GLCM) with a 
     range capability of 500 km to 5,500 km, or to possess or 
     produce launchers of such missiles''.
       (2) The 2016 report also noted that ``the cruise missile 
     developed by Russia meets the INF Treaty definition of a 
     ground-launched cruise missile with a range capability of 500 
     km to 5,500 km, and as such, all missiles of that type, and 
     all launchers of the type used or tested to launch such a 
     missile, are prohibited under the provisions of the INF 
     Treaty''.
       (3) Potential consistency and compliance concerns regarding 
     the INF Treaty noncompliant GLCM have existed since 2008, 
     were not officially raised with the Russian Federation until 
     2013, and were not briefed to the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO) until January 2014.
       (4) The United States Government is aware of other 
     consistency and compliance concerns regarding Russia actions 
     vis-a-vis its INF Treaty obligations.
       (5) Since 2013, senior United States officials, including 
     the President, the Secretary of State, and the Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have raised Russian noncompliance 
     with the INF Treaty to their counterparts, but no progress 
     has been made in bringing the Russian Federation back into 
     compliance with the INF Treaty.
       (6) In April 2014, General Breedlove, the Supreme Allied 
     Commander Europe, correctly stated, ``A weapon capability 
     that violates the INF, that is introduced into the greater 
     European land mass, is absolutely a tool that will have to be 
     dealt with . . . It can't go unanswered.''.
       (7) The Department of Defense in its September 2013 report, 
     Report on Conventional Prompt Global Strike Options if Exempt 
     from the Restrictions of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
     Forces Treaty Between the United States of America and the 
     Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, stated that it has 
     multiple validated military requirement gaps due to the 
     prohibitions imposed on the United States as a result of its 
     compliance with the INF Treaty.
       (8) It is not in the national security interests of the 
     United States to be unilaterally legally prohibited from 
     developing dual-capable ground-launched cruise missiles with 
     ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilometers, while Russia makes 
     advances in developing and fielding this class of weapon 
     systems, and such unilateral limitation cannot be allowed to 
     continue indefinitely.
       (9) Admiral Harry Harris, Jr., Commander of the United 
     States Pacific Command, testified before the Senate Armed 
     Services Committee on April 27, 2017, that ``[W]e're in a 
     multi-polar world where we have a lot of countries who are 
     developing these weapons, including China, that I worry 
     about. And I worry about their DF-21 and DF-26 missile 
     programs, their anti-carrier ballistic missile programs, if 
     you will. INF doesn't address missiles launched from ships or 
     airplanes, but it focuses on those land-based systems. I 
     think there's goodness in the INF treaty, anything you can do 
     to limit nuclear weapons writ-large is generally good. But 
     the aspects of the INF Treaty that limit our ability to 
     counter Chinese and other countries' land-based missiles, I 
     think, is problematic.''.
       (10) A material breach of the INF Treaty by the Russian 
     Federation affords the United States the right to invoke 
     legal countermeasures which include suspension of the treaty 
     in whole or in part.
       (11) Article XV of the INF Treaty provides that ``Each 
     Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the 
     right to withdraw from this Treaty if it decides that 
     extraordinary events related to the subject matter of this 
     Treaty have jeopardized its supreme interests.''.

     SEC. 1243. COMPLIANCE ENFORCEMENT REGARDING RUSSIAN 
                   VIOLATIONS OF THE INF TREATY.

       (a) Statement of United States Policy.--It is the policy of 
     the United States as follows:

[[Page H5597]]

       (1) The actions undertaken by the Russian Federation in 
     violation of the INF Treaty constitute a material breach of 
     the treaty.
       (2) In light of the Russian Federation's material breach of 
     the INF Treaty, the United States is legally entitled to 
     suspend the operation of the INF Treaty in whole or in part 
     for so long as the Russian Federation continues to be in 
     material breach.
       (3) For so long as the Russian Federation remains in 
     noncompliance with the INF Treaty, the United States should 
     take actions to encourage the Russian Federation return to 
     compliance, including by--
       (A) providing additional funds for the capabilities 
     identified in section 1243(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1062); and
       (B) seeking additional missile defense assets in the 
     European theater to protect United States and NATO forces 
     from ground-launched missile systems of the Russian 
     Federation that are in noncompliance with the INF Treaty.
       (b) Authorization of Additional Appropriations.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act for fiscal year 2018 for research, development, 
     test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in 
     division D, $50,000,000 shall be made available for--
       (A) the development of active defenses to counter ground-
     launched missile systems with ranges between 500 and 5,500 
     kilometers;
       (B) counterforce capabilities to prevent attacks from these 
     missiles; and
       (C) countervailing strike capabilities to enhance the 
     capabilities of the United States identified in section 
     1243(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1062).
       (2) Development.--Of the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated by paragraph (1), $25,000,000 is authorized to 
     be appropriated for activities undertaken to carry out 
     section 1244(a), including with respect to research and 
     development activities.

     SEC. 1244. DEVELOPMENT OF INF RANGE GROUND-LAUNCHED MISSILE 
                   SYSTEM.

       (a) Establishment of a Program of Record.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall establish a program of record to develop a 
     conventional road-mobile ground-launched cruise missile 
     system with a range of between 500 to 5,500 kilometers.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the 
     cost, schedule, and feasibility to modify existing and 
     planned missile systems, including the tomahawk land attack 
     cruise missile, the standard missile-3, the standard missile-
     6, and Army tactical missile system missiles for ground 
     launch with a range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers in 
     order to provide any of the capabilities identified in 
     section 1243(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1062).

     SEC. 1245. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT RELATED TO RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION DEVELOPMENT OF NONCOMPLIANT SYSTEMS 
                   AND UNITED STATES ACTIONS REGARDING MATERIAL 
                   BREACH OF INF TREATY BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Declaration of Policy.--Congress declares that because 
     of the Russian Federation's violations of the INF Treaty, 
     including the flight-test, production, and possession of 
     prohibited systems, its actions have defeated the object and 
     purpose of the INF Treaty, and thus constitute a material 
     breach of the INF Treaty.
       (b) Notifiction by Director of National Intelligence.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
     shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of any 
     development, deployment, or test of a system by the Russian 
     Federation that the Director determines is inconsistent with 
     the INF Treaty.
       (2) Deadline.--A notification under this subsection shall 
     be made not later than 15 days after the date on which the 
     Director makes the determination under this subsection with 
     respect to which the notification is required.
       (c) Report by President.--Not later than 15 months after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that contains a determination of the President of whether the 
     Russian Federation has flight-tested, produced, or is in 
     possession of a ground-launched cruise missile or ground-
     launched ballistic missile with a range of between 500 and 
     5,500 kilometers during each of the three consecutive 120-day 
     periods beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (d) United States Actions.--If the determination of the 
     President contained in the report required to be submitted 
     under subsection (c) is that the Russian Federation has 
     flight-tested, produced, or is in possession of any missile 
     described in subsection (c) during each of the periods 
     described in subsection (c), the prohibitions set forth in 
     Article VI of the INF Treaty shall no longer be binding on 
     the United States as a matter of United States law.

     SEC. 1246. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO EXTEND THE 
                   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NEW START TREATY.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to extend 
     the implementation of the New START Treaty unless the 
     President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the Russian Federation has verifiably 
     eliminated all missiles that are in violation of or may be 
     inconsistent with the INF Treaty.

     SEC. 1247. REVIEW OF RS-26 BALLISTIC MISSILE.

       (a) In General.--The President, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall conduct a review of the RS-26 ballistic 
     missile of the Russian Federation.
       (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of 
     National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the review conducted 
     under subsection (a). The report shall include--
       (1) a determination whether the RS-26 ballistic missile is 
     covered under the New START Treaty or would be a violation of 
     the INF Treaty because Russia has flight-tested such missile 
     to ranges covered by the INF Treaty in more than one warhead 
     configuration; and
       (2) if the President determines that the RS-26 ballistic 
     missile is covered under the New START Treaty, a 
     determination whether the Russian Federation--
       (A) has agreed through the Bilateral Consultative 
     Commission that such a system is limited under the New START 
     Treaty central limits; and
       (B) has agreed to an exhibition of such a system.
       (c) Effect of Determination.--If the President, with the 
     concurrence of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, determines that the RS-26 
     ballistic missile is covered under the New START Treaty and 
     that the Russian Federation has not taken the steps described 
     under subsection (b)(2), the United States Government shall 
     consider for purposes of all policies and decisions that the 
     RS-26 ballistic missile of the Russian Federation is a 
     violation of the INF Treaty.

     SEC. 1248. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
     between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
     Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-
     Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington 
     December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
       (3) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
     community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(4) of 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
       (4) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means 
     the Treaty between the United States of America and the 
     Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and 
     Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed at Prague 
     April 8, 2010, and entered into force February 5, 2011.
       (5) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
     means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
     1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.

   Subtitle F--Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act of 2017

     SEC. 1251. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Fostering Unity Against 
     Russian Aggression Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1252. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) General Curtis M. Scaparrotti, Commander of the United 
     States European Command, testified before the House Armed 
     Services Committee on March 27, 2017, that ``Today we face 
     the most dynamic European security environment in history.'' 
     and that ``Russia's malign actions are supported by its 
     diplomatic, information, economic, and military 
     initiatives.''.
       (2) The Russian Federation has shifted to a military 
     doctrine that envisions using nuclear weapons in an attempt 
     to end a failing regional conventional conflict. On June 25, 
     2015, Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Work and then-Vice-
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral James Winnefeld 
     testified before the House Armed Services Committee that 
     ``Russian military doctrine includes what some have called an 
     `escalate to de-escalate' strategy--a strategy that 
     purportedly seeks to deescalate a conventional conflict 
     through coercive threats, including limited nuclear use. We 
     think that this label is dangerously misleading. Anyone who 
     thinks they can control escalation through the use of nuclear 
     weapons is literally playing with fire. Escalation is 
     escalation, and nuclear use would be the ultimate 
     escalation.''.
       (3) General Scaparrotti noted in his March 27, 2017, 
     testimony before the House Armed Services Committee that 
     ``Moscow's provocative rhetoric and nuclear threats increase 
     the likelihood of misunderstanding and miscalculation.''.
       (4) The Russian Federation continues to conduct ongoing 
     influence campaigns aimed at undermining democracies around 
     the world. According to an assessment by the intelligence 
     community, ``Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an 
     influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential 
     election'', which included the use of the Russian military 
     intelligence organization. The intelligence community also 
     assessed that Russia would apply lessons learned

[[Page H5598]]

     to future influence efforts worldwide, including against 
     United States allies and their election systems.
       (5) The Russian Federation continues its aggression on its 
     periphery. In 2008, the Russian Federation fomented conflict 
     in Georgia. Further, the Russian Federation is directing 
     combined Russian-Separatist units in eastern Ukraine, 
     actively inciting violence and prolonging the most 
     significant conflict in Europe.
       (6) The investment of over $5 billion in the European 
     Reassurance Initiative (ERI), now the European Deterrence 
     Initiative (EDI), has proven successful in significantly 
     enhancing the ability of United States forces, NATO allies, 
     and regional partners to deter Russian aggression. EDI has 
     not only assured our European allies and partners but 
     supported essential investments in NATO's military capacity, 
     interoperability, and agility.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the risks of miscalculation in a crisis are exacerbated 
     by the Russian Federation's shift to a military doctrine of 
     ``escalate to de-escalate'', lowering the threshold for 
     Russian use of nuclear weapons and thereby increasing the 
     risk of using nuclear weapons, potentially escalating in to a 
     massive nuclear exchange;
       (2) subversive and destabilizing activities by the Russian 
     Federation targeting NATO allies and partners causes concern 
     and should be condemned;
       (3) European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) investments are 
     long-term and, as such, Congress expects future budgets to 
     reflect United States commitment by planning for funding in 
     the base budget, and further EDI should build on United 
     States presence by increasing the United States permanent 
     force posture; and
       (4) credible deterrence requires steadfast cooperation and 
     joint action with NATO allies and partners and other United 
     States allies and partners in Europe.

     SEC. 1253. STRATEGY TO COUNTER THREATS BY THE RUSSIAN 
                   FEDERATION.

       (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State and in consultation 
     with each of the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the commanders of each of the 
     regional and functional combatant commands, shall develop and 
     implement a comprehensive strategy to counter threats by the 
     Russian Federation.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     on the strategy required by subsection (a).
       (2) Elements.--The report required by this subsection shall 
     include the following elements:
       (A) An evaluation of strategic objectives and motivations 
     of the Russian Federation.
       (B) A detailed description of Russian threats to the 
     national security of the United States, including threats 
     that may pose challenges below the threshold of armed 
     conflict.
       (C) A discussion of how the strategy complements the 
     National Defense Strategy and the National Military Strategy.
       (D) A discussion of the ends, ways, and means inherent to 
     the strategy.
       (E) A discussion of the strategy's objectives with respect 
     to deterrence, escalation control, and conflict resolution.
       (F) A description of the military activities across 
     geographic regions and military functions and domains that 
     are inherent to the strategy.
       (G) A description of the posture, forward presence, and 
     readiness requirements inherent to the strategy.
       (H) A description of the roles of the United States Armed 
     Forces in implementing the strategy, including--
       (i) the role of United States nuclear capabilities;
       (ii) the role of United States space capabilities;
       (iii) the role of United States cyber capabilities;
       (iv) the role of United States conventional ground forces;
       (v) the role of United States naval forces;
       (vi) the role of United States air forces; and
       (vii) the role of United States special operations forces.
       (I) An assessment of the force requirements needed to 
     implement and sustain the strategy.
       (J) A description of the logistical requirements needed to 
     implement and sustain the strategy.
       (K) An assessment of the technological research and 
     development requirements needed to implement and sustain the 
     strategy.
       (L) An assessment of the training and exercise requirements 
     needed to implement and sustain the strategy.
       (M) An assessment of the budgetary resource requirements 
     needed to implement and sustain the strategy through December 
     31, 2030.
       (N) A discussion of how the strategy provides a framework 
     for future planning and investments in regional defense 
     initiatives, including the European Deterrence Initiative.
       (3) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1254. STRATEGY TO INCREASE CONVENTIONAL PRECISION STRIKE 
                   WEAPON STOCKPILES IN THE UNITED STATES EUROPEAN 
                   COMMAND'S AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY.

       (a) Strategy Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
     with the Secretary of State, shall develop and implement a 
     strategy to increase conventional precision strike weapon 
     stockpiles in the United States European Command's areas of 
     responsibility.
       (2) Elements.--The strategy required by this subsection 
     shall include necessary increases in the quantities of such 
     stockpiles that the Secretary determines will enhance 
     deterrence and warfighting capability of the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization forces.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the strategy required by 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1255. PLAN TO COUNTER THE MILITARY CAPABILITIES OF THE 
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Plan Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
     implement a plan to counter the military capabilities of the 
     Russian Federation.
       (2) Elements.--The plan required by this subsection shall 
     include the following:
       (A) Accelerating programs to improve the capability of 
     United States military forces to operate in a Global 
     Positioning System (GPS)-denied or GPS-degraded environment.
       (B) Accelerating programs of the Department of the Army to 
     counter Russian unmanned aircraft systems, electronic 
     warfare, and long-range precision strike capabilities.
       (C) Countering unconventional capabilities and hybrid 
     threats from the Russian Federation.
       (D) Any other elements that the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.
       (b) Report Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report on the plan required by 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     concerns persist over the growing sophistication of 
     unconventional and hybrid state-sponsored threats by the 
     Russian Federation as demonstrated through its advancement 
     and integration of conventional warfare, economic warfare, 
     cyber and information operations, intelligence operations, 
     and other activities to undermine United States national 
     security objectives.

     SEC. 1256. PLAN TO INCREASE CYBER AND INFORMATION OPERATIONS, 
                   DETERRENCE, AND DEFENSE.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
     State shall jointly develop a plan to--
       (1) increase inclusion of regional cyber planning within 
     larger United States joint planning exercises in the European 
     region;
       (2) enhance joint, regional, and combined information 
     operations and strategic communication strategies to counter 
     Russian Federation information warfare, malign influence, and 
     propaganda activities; and
       (3) identify potential areas of cybersecurity collaboration 
     and partnership capabilities with NATO and other European 
     allies and partners of the United States.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     briefing on the plan required under subsection (a).

     SEC. 1257. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENHANCING MARITIME 
                   CAPABILITIES.

       Congress notes the 2016 Force Structure Assessment (FSA) 
     that increased the requirement for fast attack submarine 
     (SSN) from 48 to 66 and supports an acquisition plan that 
     enhances maritime capabilities that address this requirement.

     SEC. 1258. PLAN TO REDUCE THE RISKS OF MISCALCULATION AND 
                   UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES THAT COULD PRECIPITATE 
                   A NUCLEAR WAR.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
       (1) the Russian Federation has adopted a dangerous nuclear 
     doctrine that includes a strategy of ``escalate to de-
     escalate'', which could lower the threshold for Russian use 
     of nuclear weapons in a regional conflict; and
       (2) such nuclear doctrine exacerbates the risks of 
     miscalculation and unintended consequences that could 
     precipitate a nuclear war.
       (b) Plan Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Chairman of 
     the Joint Chief of Staff, the Commander of the United States 
     Strategic Command, and the Commander of the United States 
     European Command, shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a plan that includes options to reduce the risk of 
     miscalculation and unintended consequences that could 
     precipitate a nuclear war.
       (2) Elements.--The plan required under this subsection 
     shall include--
       (A) an assessment of the value of military-to-military 
     dialog to reduce such risk; and
       (B) any other recommendations the Secretary determines to 
     be appropriate.

     SEC. 1259. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) NATO.--The term ``NATO'' means the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization.

      Subtitle G--Matters Relating to the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region

     SEC. 1261. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the security, stability, and prosperity of the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region are vital to the national interests of 
     the United States;

[[Page H5599]]

       (2) the United States should maintain a military capability 
     in the region that is able to project power, deter acts of 
     aggression, and respond, if necessary, to regional threats;
       (3) continuing efforts by the Department of Defense to 
     realign forces, commit additional assets, and increase 
     investments to the Indo-Asia-Pacific region are necessary to 
     maintain a robust United States commitment to the region;
       (4) the Secretary of Defense should--
       (A) assess the current United States force posture in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region to ensure that the United States 
     maintains an appropriate forward presence in the region;
       (B) invest in critical munitions, undersea warfare 
     capabilities, amphibious capabilities, resilient space 
     architectures, missile defense, offensive and defensive cyber 
     capabilities, and other capabilities conducive to operating 
     effectively in contested environments; and
       (C) enhance regional force readiness through joint training 
     and exercises, considering contingencies ranging from grey 
     zone to high-end near-peer conflict; and
       (5) the United States should continue to engage in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region by strengthening alliances and 
     partnerships, supporting regional institutions and bodies 
     such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
     building cooperative security arrangements, addressing shared 
     challenges, and reinforcing the role of international law.

     SEC. 1262. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO PRIORITIZE UNITED STATES 
                   DEFENSE INTERESTS IN THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC 
                   REGION.

       (a) Required Report.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
     a report that contains a strategy to prioritize United States 
     defense interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region. The 
     strategy shall address the following:
       (1) The security challenges, including threats, emanating 
     from the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
       (2) The primary objectives and priorities in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region, including--
       (A) the military missions necessary to address threats on 
     the Korean Peninsula;
       (B) the role of the Department of Defense in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region regarding security challenges posed by China;
       (C) the primary objectives and priorities for combating 
     terrorism in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region;
       (3) Department of Defense plans, force posture, 
     capabilities, and resources to address any gaps.
       (4) The roles of allies, partners, and other countries in 
     achieving United States defense objectives and priorities.
       (5) Actions the Department of Defense could take, in 
     cooperation with other Federal departments or agencies, to 
     advance United Sates national security interests in the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region.
       (6) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
     to be appropriate.
       (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (c) Annual Budget.--The President, acting through the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall ensure 
     that the annual budget submitted to Congress under section 
     1105 of title 31, United States Code, clearly highlights 
     programs and projects that are being funded in the annual 
     budget of the United States Government that relate to the 
     strategy referred to in subsection (a).
       (d) Repeal.--Section 1251 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3570) is hereby 
     repealed.

     SEC. 1263. ASSESSMENT OF UNITED STATES FORCE POSTURE AND 
                   BASING NEEDS IN THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

       (a) Assessment Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
     assessment of United States force posture and basing needs in 
     the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required under paragraph (1) 
     shall include the following:
       (A) A review of military requirements based on operation 
     and contingency plans, scenarios, capabilities of potential 
     adversaries, and any assessed gaps or shortfalls of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (B) A review of current United States military force 
     posture and deployment plans of the United States Pacific 
     Command.
       (C) An analysis of potential future realignments of United 
     States forces in the region, including options for 
     strengthening United States presence, access, readiness, 
     training, exercises, logistics, and pre-positioning.
       (D) A discussion of any factors that may influence the 
     United States posture.
       (E) Any recommended changes to the United States posture in 
     the region.
       (F) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
     to be appropriate.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a report that includes the assessment 
     required under subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1264. EXTENDED DETERRENCE COMMITMENT TO THE ASIA-PACIFIC 
                   REGION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The 2010 Nuclear Posture Review reaffirmed the 
     commitment of the United States to extended deterrence and 
     continued protection of the treaty allies of the United 
     States under the United States nuclear umbrella.
       (2) The United States-Republic of Korea Deterrence Strategy 
     Committee and the United States-Japan Extended Deterrence 
     Dialogue provide valuable communication channels for ensuring 
     the commitment of the United States to the policy of extended 
     nuclear deterrence and allow for bilateral discussions on how 
     United States capabilities can be leveraged to credibly 
     deter, and if necessary, defeat, North Korean nuclear 
     weapons, weapons of mass destruction, and missile threats and 
     aggression.
       (3) Statements by officials of the United States have 
     consistently emphasized the United States commitment to 
     providing extended deterrence and defense across the full 
     spectrum of military capabilities, including nuclear 
     capabilities.
       (4) On September 9, 2016, President Obama responded to a 
     North Korean nuclear test by issuing the following statement, 
     ``I restated to President Park and Prime Minister Abe the 
     unshakable U.S. commitment to take necessary steps to defend 
     our allies in the region, including through our deployment of 
     a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) battery to the 
     ROK, and the commitment to extended deterrence, guaranteed by 
     the full spectrum of U.S. defense capabilities.''.
       (5) On October 14, 2016, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
     Staff, General Joseph Dunford, ``reaffirmed the ironclad 
     commitment of the U.S. to defend both the ROK and Japan and 
     provide extended deterrence guaranteed by the full spectrum 
     of U.S. military capabilities, including conventional, 
     nuclear, and missile defense capabilities''.
       (6) On October 19, 2016, Secretary of Defense Ashton 
     Carter, stated, ``the U.S. commitment to the defense of South 
     Korea is unwavering. This includes our commitment to provide 
     extended deterrence, guaranteed by the full spectrum of U.S. 
     defense capabilities. Make no mistake: Any attack on America 
     or our allies will not only be defeated, but any use of 
     nuclear weapons will be met with an overwhelming and 
     effective response.''.
       (7) On October 19, 2016, Secretary of State John Kerry, 
     during a joint press conference with the South Korean Foreign 
     Minister, confirmed the United States would ``defend South 
     Korea through a robust combined defense posture and through 
     extended deterrence, including the US nuclear umbrella, 
     conventional strike and missile defense capabilities.''.
       (8) On February 3, 2017, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, 
     during a visit to South Korea, stated, ``America's 
     commitments to defending our allies and to upholding our 
     extended deterrence guarantees remain ironclad: Any attack on 
     the United States, or our allies, will be defeated, and any 
     use of nuclear weapons would be met with a response that 
     would be effective and overwhelming.''.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the defense of the Republic of Korea and Japan must 
     remain a top priority for the administration;
       (2) the United States maintains an unwavering and steadfast 
     commitment to the policy of extended deterrence, especially 
     with respect to South Korea and Japan;
       (3) bilateral extended deterrence dialogues and discussions 
     with South Korea and Japan are of great value to the United 
     States and its partners and must remain a central component 
     of these relationships;
       (4) the United States must sustain and modernize current 
     United States nuclear capabilities to ensure the extended 
     deterrence commitments of the United States remain credible 
     and executable; and
       (5) the timely development, production, and deployment of 
     modern nuclear-capable aircraft are fundamental to ensure 
     that the United States remains able to meet extended 
     deterrence requirements in the Asia-Pacific region far into 
     the future.
       (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed to alter the shared goal of the United States, 
     South Korea, and Japan for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula 
     or to change the United States nuclear posture in the Asia-
     Pacific region.

     SEC. 1265. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS TO MEET UNITED 
                   STATES FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS UNDER COMPACT OF 
                   FREE ASSOCIATION WITH PALAU.

       There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 
     $123,900,000 to the Secretary of the Interior, to remain 
     available until expended, for use in meeting the financial 
     obligations of the Government of the United States under the 
     Agreement between the Government of the United States of 
     America and the Government of the Republic of Palau under 
     section 432 of the Compact of Free Association with Palau (48 
     U.S.C. 1931 note; Public Law 99-658).

     SEC. 1266. SENSE OF CONGRESS REAFFIRMING SECURITY COMMITMENTS 
                   TO THE GOVERNMENTS OF JAPAN AND SOUTH KOREA AND 
                   TRILATERAL COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED 
                   STATES, JAPAN, AND SOUTH KOREA.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States values its alliances with the 
     Governments of Japan and the Republic of Korea, based on 
     shared values of democracy, the rule of law, free and open 
     markets, and respect for human rights;
       (2) the United States reaffirms its commitment to these 
     alliances with Japan and South Korea, which are critical for 
     the preservation of peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific 
     region and throughout the world;
       (3) the United States recognizes the substantial financial 
     commitments of Japan and South Korea to the maintenance of 
     United States forces in these countries, making them among 
     the most significant burden-sharing partners of the United 
     States;

[[Page H5600]]

       (4) the United States reaffirms its commitment to Article V 
     of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the 
     United States of America and Japan, which applies to the 
     Japanese-administered Senkaku Islands;
       (5) the United States supports continued implementation and 
     expansion of defense cooperation with Japan in accordance 
     with the 2015 U.S.-Japan Defense Guidelines and additional 
     measures to strengthen this defense cooperation, including by 
     expanding foreign military sales, establishing new 
     cooperative technology development programs, increasing 
     military exercises, or other actions as appropriate;
       (6) the United States and South Korea share deep concerns 
     that the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of North 
     Korea and its repeated provocations pose great threats to 
     peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula, and the United 
     States recognizes that South Korea has made important 
     commitments to the bilateral security alliance, including by 
     hosting a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system;
       (7) the United States and South Korea should continue 
     further defense cooperation, by enhancing mutual security 
     based on the Mutual Defense Treaty between the United States 
     and the Republic of Korea and investing in capabilities 
     critical to the combined defense;
       (8) the United States welcomes greater security cooperation 
     with, and among, Japan and South Korea to promote mutual 
     interests and address shared concerns, including the 
     bilateral military intelligence-sharing pact between Japan 
     and South Korea, signed on November 23, 2016, and the 
     trilateral intelligence sharing agreement between the United 
     States, Japan, and South Korea, signed on December 29, 2015; 
     and
       (9) recognizing that North Korea poses a threat to the 
     United States, Japan, and South Korea, and that the security 
     of the three countries is intertwined, the United States 
     welcomes and encourages deeper trilateral defense 
     cooperation, including through expanded exercises, training, 
     and information sharing that strengthens integration.

     SEC. 1267. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION 
                   OPERATIONS IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States has a national interest in 
     maintaining freedom of navigation, respect for international 
     law, and unimpeded lawful commerce in the South China Sea;
       (2) the United States should condemn any assertion that 
     limits the right to freedom of navigation and overflight; and
       (3) the United States should keep to a regular and routine 
     schedule for freedom of navigation operations in the sea and 
     air.

     SEC. 1268. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON STRENGTHENING THE DEFENSE OF 
                   TAIWAN.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 
     3301 et seq.) codified the basis for commercial, cultural, 
     and other relations between the United States and Taiwan, and 
     the Six Assurances are an important aspect in guiding 
     bilateral relations;
       (2) Section 3(a) of that Act states that ``the United 
     States will make available to Taiwan such defense articles 
     and defense services in such quantity as may be necessary to 
     enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense 
     capability'';
       (3) the United States, in accordance with such section, 
     should make available and provide timely review of requests 
     for defense articles and defense services that may be 
     necessary for Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense 
     capability;
       (4) Taiwan should significantly increase its defense budget 
     to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability;
       (5) the United States should support expanded exchanges 
     focused on practical training for Taiwan personnel by and 
     with United States military units, including exchanges 
     between services, to empower senior military officers to 
     identify and develop asymmetric and innovative capabilities 
     that strengthen Taiwan's ability to deter aggression;
       (6) the United States should seek opportunities for 
     expanded training and exercises with Taiwan;
       (7) the United States should encourage Taiwan's continued 
     investments in asymmetric self-defense capabilities that are 
     mobile, survivable against threatening forces, and able to 
     take full advantage of Taiwan's geography; and
       (8) the United States should continue to--
       (A) support humanitarian assistance and disaster relief 
     exercises that increase Taiwan's resiliency and ability to 
     respond to and recover from natural disasters; and
       (B) recognize Taiwan's already valuable military 
     contributions to such efforts.

     SEC. 1269. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST 
                   ASIAN NATIONS.

       (a) Finding.--Congress finds that 2017 is the 50th 
     anniversary of the formation of the Association of Southeast 
     Asian Nations (ASEAN), which includes Indonesia, Malaysia, 
     the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, 
     Burma, and Cambodia.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States supports the development of regional 
     institutions and bodies, including the ASEAN Regional Forum, 
     the ASEAN Defense Ministers Meeting Plus, the East Asia 
     Summit, and the expanded ASEAN Maritime Forum, to increase 
     regional cooperation and ensure that disputes are managed 
     without intimidation, coercion, or force;
       (2) the United States recognizes ASEAN efforts to promote 
     peace, stability, and prosperity in the region, including the 
     steps taken to highlight the importance of peaceful dispute 
     resolution and the need for adherence to international rules 
     and standards.
       (3) United States defense engagement with ASEAN and the 
     ASEAN Defense Ministers Meeting Plus should continue to be 
     forums to discuss shared challenges in the maritime domain 
     and the need for greater information sharing among ASEAN 
     nations; and
       (4) the United States welcomes continued work with ASEAN 
     and other regional partners to establish more reliable and 
     routine crisis communication mechanisms.

     SEC. 1270. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON REAFFIRMING THE IMPORTANCE OF 
                   THE UNITED STATES-AUSTRALIA DEFENSE ALLIANCE.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States values its alliance with the 
     Government of Australia, and the shared values and interests 
     between both countries are essential to promoting peace, 
     security, stability, and economic prosperity in the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region;
       (2) the annual rotations of United States Marine Corps 
     forces to Darwin, Australia and enhanced rotations of United 
     States Air Force aircraft to Australia pave the way for even 
     closer defense and security cooperation;
       (3) the Treaty Between the Government of the United States 
     of America and the Government of Australia Concerning Defense 
     Trade Cooperation, done at Sydney, September 5, 2007, should 
     continue to facilitate industry collaboration and innovation 
     to meet shared security challenges and reinforce military 
     ties;
       (4) as described by Australian Prime Minister Malcolm 
     Turnbull, North Korea is ``a threat to the peace of the 
     region'' and the United States and Australia should continue 
     to cooperate to defend against the threat of North Korea's 
     nuclear and missile capabilities; and
       (5) the United States and Australia also should continue to 
     address the threat of terrorism and strengthen information 
     sharing.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

     SEC. 1271. NATO COOPERATIVE CYBER DEFENSE CENTER OF 
                   EXCELLENCE.

       (a) Authorization.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2018 for support of 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this section referred 
     to as ``NATO'') operations, as specified in the funding 
     tables in division D, not more than $5,000,000 may be 
     obligated or expended for the purposes described in 
     subsection (b).
       (b) Purposes.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide funds 
     for the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence 
     (in this section referred to as the ``Center'') to--
       (1) enhance the capability, cooperation, and information 
     sharing among NATO, NATO member nations, and partners, with 
     respect to cyber defense and warfare; and
       (2) facilitate education, research and development, lessons 
     learned and consultation in cyber defense and warfare.
       (c) Certification.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     certify to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the Secretary has 
     assigned executive agent responsibility for the Center to an 
     appropriate organization within the Department of Defense, 
     and detail the steps being undertaken to strengthen the role 
     of the Center in fostering cyber defense and warfare 
     capabilities within NATO.
       (d) Briefing Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     periodically brief the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate on the efforts of the 
     Department of Defense to strengthen the role of the Center in 
     fostering cyber defense and warfare capabilities within NATO.

     SEC. 1272. NATO STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS CENTER OF 
                   EXCELLENCE.

       (a) Authorization.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2018 for support of 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this section referred 
     to as ``NATO'') operations, as specified in the funding 
     tables in division D, not more than $5,000,000 may be 
     obligated or expended for the purposes described in 
     subsection (b).
       (b) Purposes.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide funds 
     for the NATO Strategic Communications Center of Excellence 
     (in this section referred to as the ``Center'') to--
       (1) enhance the capability, cooperation, and information 
     sharing among NATO, NATO member nations, and partners, with 
     respect to strategic communications and information 
     operations; and
       (2) facilitate education, research and development, lessons 
     learned, and consultation in strategic communications and 
     information operations.
       (c) Certification.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     certify to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the Secretary has 
     assigned executive agent responsibility for the Center to an 
     appropriate organization within the Department of Defense, 
     and detail the steps being undertaken to strengthen the role 
     of Center in fostering strategic communications and 
     information operations within NATO.
       (d) Briefing Requirement.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     periodically brief the committees listed in paragraph (2) on 
     the efforts of the Department of Defense to strengthen the 
     role of the Center in fostering strategic communications and 
     information operations within NATO.
       (2) Committees.--The committees listed in this paragraph 
     are the following:
       (A) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
       (B) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.

[[Page H5601]]

  


     SEC. 1273. SECURITY AND STABILITY STRATEGY FOR SOMALIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a 
     comprehensive United States strategy to achieve long-term 
     security and stability in Somalia and includes each of the 
     following elements:
       (1) A description of United States strategic objectives in 
     Somalia and the benchmarks for assessing progress toward such 
     objectives.
       (2) An assessment of the threats posed to Somalia, the 
     broader region, the United States, and partners of the United 
     States, by al-Shabaab and organizations affiliated with the 
     Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Somalia, including 
     the origins, strategic aims, tactical methods, funding 
     sources, and leadership of each organization.
       (3) A description of the key international and United 
     States governance, diplomatic, development, military, and 
     intelligence resources available to address instability in 
     Somalia.
       (4) A plan to improve coordination among, and effectiveness 
     of, United States governance, diplomatic, development, 
     military, and intelligence resources to counter the threat of 
     al-Shabaab and organizations affiliated with the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and the Levant in Somalia.
       (5) A description of the role the United States is playing 
     or will play to address political instability and support 
     long-term security and stability in Somalia.
       (6) A description of the contributions made by the African 
     Union Mission in Somalia (in this section referred to as 
     ``AMISOM'') to security in Somalia and an assessment of the 
     anticipated duration of support provided to AMISOM by troop 
     contributing countries.
       (7) A plan to train the Somali National Army and other 
     Somali security forces, that also includes--
       (A) a description of the assistance provided by other 
     countries for such training; and
       (B) a description of the efforts to integrate regional 
     militias into the uniformed Somali security forces; and
       (C) a description of the security assistance authorities 
     under which any such training would be provided by the United 
     States and the recommendations of the Secretary to address 
     any gaps under such authorities to advise, assist, or 
     accompany the Somali National Army or other Somali security 
     forces within appropriate roles and responsibilities that are 
     not fulfilled by other countries or by international 
     organizations.
       (8) A description of the steps the United States, AMISOM, 
     and any forces trained by the United States are taking in 
     Somalia to minimize civilian casualties and other harm to 
     civilians.
       (9) Any other matters the President considers appropriate.
       (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1274. ASSESSMENT OF GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION 
                   MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
     forth an assessment, obtained by the Secretary for purposes 
     of the report, of the effectiveness of measures taken to 
     improve the functionality of the Global Theater Security 
     Cooperation Management Information System (in this section 
     referred to as the ``G-TSCMIS'').
       (b) Independent Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--The assessment obtained for purposes of 
     subsection (a) shall be conducted by a federally funded 
     research and development center (FFRDC), or another 
     appropriate independent entity with expertise in security 
     cooperation programs and activities of the Department of 
     Defense, selected by the Secretary for purposes of the 
     assessment.
       (2) Use of previous studies.--The entity conducting the 
     assessment may use and incorporate information from previous 
     studies on matters appropriate to the assessment.
       (c) Elements.--The assessment obtained for purposes of 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) An assessment of the extent to which security 
     cooperation organizations are entering consistent, full, and 
     accurate information into G-TSCMIS in a timely manner, and 
     the impacts of inconsistent, incomplete, inaccurate, and 
     tardy data entry on the functionality of the G-TSCMIS as a 
     tool for security cooperation planning, resource allocation, 
     and program adjustment.
       (2) An assessment of any measures taken by the Department 
     of Defense to ensure the full scope of security cooperation 
     activities are entered into the G-TSCMIS in a timely manner, 
     including any guidance issued or resource allocation 
     determinations.
       (3) An assessment of the effectiveness of oversight 
     measures to ensure the full scope of security cooperation 
     activities are entered into the G-TSCMIS in a timely manner.
       (4) An assessment of utilization by and functionality for 
     users of the G-TSCMIS across the Department of Defense, 
     including the extent of G-TSCMIS business process 
     reengineering that was conducted to best align needs from the 
     functional community with the capabilities of the information 
     management tool.
       (5) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
       (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 1275. FUTURE YEARS PLAN FOR THE EUROPEAN DETERRENCE 
                   INITIATIVE.

       (a) Plan Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Commander of the United States European 
     Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a future years plan on activities and resources of the 
     European Deterrence Initiative (in this section referred to 
     as the ``EDI'').
       (2) Applicability.--The plan shall apply with respect 
     fiscal year 2018 and at least the four succeeding fiscal 
     years.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The plan required under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A description of the objectives of the EDI.
       (2) An assessment of resource requirements to achieve the 
     objectives of the EDI.
       (3) An assessment of capabilities requirements to achieve 
     the objectives of the EDI.
       (4) An assessment of logistics requirements, including 
     force enablers, equipment, supplies, storage, and maintenance 
     requirements, to achieve the objectives of the EDI.
       (5) An identification and assessment of required 
     infrastructure investments to achieve the objectives of the 
     EDI, including potential infrastructure investments by host 
     nations and new construction or modernization of existing 
     sites that would be funded by the United States.
       (6) An assessment of security cooperation investments 
     required to achieve the objectives of the EDI.
       (7) A plan to fully resource United States force posture 
     and capabilities, including--
       (A) details regarding the strategy to balance the force 
     structure of the United States forces to source additional 
     permanently stationed United States forces in Europe as a 
     part of any planned growth in end strength and force posture;
       (B) the infrastructure capacity of existing locations and 
     their ability to accommodate additional permanently stationed 
     United States forces in Europe;
       (C) the potential new locations for additional permanently 
     stationed United States forces in Europe, including an 
     assessment of infrastructure and military construction 
     resources necessary to accommodate additional United States 
     forces in Europe;
       (D) a detailed timeline to achieve desired permanent 
     posture requirements;
       (E) a reevaluation of sites identified for divestiture but 
     not yet divested under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative, accounting for updated military 
     requirements; and
       (F) any changes and associated costs incurred with 
     retaining each site identified for divestiture but not yet 
     divested under the European Infrastructure Consolidation 
     initiative, including possible leasing agreements, 
     sustainment, and maintenance.
       (c) Form.--The plan required under subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Limitations.--
       (1) General limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
     take any action to divest any site identified for divestiture 
     but not yet divested under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative until the Secretary submits to the 
     congressional defense committees the plan required under 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Site-specific limitation.--In the case of a proposed 
     divestiture of a site under the European Infrastructure 
     Consolidation initiative, the Secretary of Defense may not 
     take any action to divest the site unless prior to taking 
     such action, the Secretary certifies to the congressional 
     defense committees that no military requirement for future 
     use of the site is foreseeable.

     SEC. 1276. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENTS 
                   WITH PARTICIPATING COUNTRIES IN THE AMERICAN, 
                   BRITISH, CANADIAN, AND AUSTRALIAN ARMIES' 
                   PROGRAM.

       Section 1274(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2026; 10 
     U.S.C. 2350a note) is amended by striking ``five years'' and 
     inserting ``ten years''.

     SEC. 1277. SECURITY STRATEGY FOR YEMEN.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
     contains a security strategy for Yemen.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following elements:
       (1) A discussion of the strategy's compliance with 
     applicable legal authorities.
       (2) A detailed description of the security environment.
       (3) A detailed description of the threats posed by Al Qaeda 
     in the Arabian Peninsula and the Islamic State in Iraq and 
     the Levant-Yemen Province, including the origins, leadership, 
     strategic aims, tactical methods, and resources attributable 
     to each organization.
       (4) A detailed description of the threats posed to freedom 
     of navigation through the Bab al Mandab Strait and waters in 
     proximity to Yemen as well as any United States efforts to 
     mitigate those threats.
       (5) A discussion of the ends, ways, and means inherent to 
     the strategy.
       (6) A discussion of the strategy's objectives regarding 
     counterterrorism and long-term stability in Yemen.
       (7) A plan to coordinate the United States diplomatic, 
     development, military, and intelligence resources necessary 
     to implement the strategy.
       (8) A detailed description of the roles of the United 
     States Armed Forces in implementing the strategy.

[[Page H5602]]

       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 1278. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES 
                   THAT ARE HIGH MOBILITY MULTI-PURPOSE WHEELED 
                   VEHICLES.

       (a) Limitation.--The President may not transfer excess 
     defense articles that are high mobility multi-purpose wheeled 
     vehicles under the authority of section 516 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j) to foreign countries 
     until 30 days after the date on which the Comptroller General 
     of the United States has submitted the report required under 
     subsection (b) to the appropriate congressional committees.
       (b) Report Required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on all proposed and completed transfers 
     of excess defense articles that are high mobility multi-
     purpose wheeled vehicles under the authority of section 516 
     of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j) 
     during fiscal years 2012 through 2016. Such report shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An assessment of the timing, rigorousness, and 
     procedures used in conducting the analysis of the impact of 
     each such transfer on the national technology and industrial 
     base and, particularly, the impact on opportunities of 
     entities in the national technology and industrial base to 
     sell new or used equipment to the countries to which such 
     articles were to be or were transferred in accordance with 
     section 516(b)(1)(E) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     (22 U.S.C. 2321j(b)(1)(E)).
       (2) Any other related matters the Comptroller General 
     determines to be appropriate.
       (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitation in 
     subsection (a) with respect to a proposed transfer of excess 
     defense articles if the President--
       (1) determines that such transfer is in the national 
     interest of the United States; and
       (2) notifies the appropriate congressional committees of 
     such waiver in writing not less than 30 days prior to such 
     transfer.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply with 
     respect to letters of offer to transfer excess defense 
     articles that are high mobility multi-purpose wheeled 
     vehicles issued on or after such date of enactment.

     SEC. 1279. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAM TO PROTECT UNITED 
                   STATES STUDENTS AGAINST FOREIGN AGENTS.

       (a) Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
     implement a program to prepare United States students 
     studying abroad through Department of Defense National 
     Security Education Programs to recognize and protect 
     themselves against recruitment efforts by intelligence 
     agents.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives a briefing on the program required under 
     subsection (a).

     SEC. 1280. EXTENSION OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ANTI-TUNNEL 
                   COOPERATION AUTHORITY.

       Section 1279(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1079; 22 
     U.S.C. 8606 note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
     2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

     SEC. 1281. ANTICORRUPTION STRATEGY.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the United 
     States engages in a contingency operation, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the 
     United States Agency for International Development, in 
     consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal 
     agencies, shall jointly develop a strategy to prevent 
     corruption in any reconstruction efforts associated with such 
     operation and submit such strategy to--
       (1) the congressional defense committees;
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (b) Benchmarks.--The strategy described in subsection (a) 
     shall include measurable benchmarks to be met as a condition 
     for disbursement of any funds for reconstruction efforts 
     associated with such operation.
       (c) Report.--For the duration of a contingency operation 
     for which the Secretary of Defense has submitted a strategy 
     pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress an annual report evaluating the implementation and 
     effectiveness of such strategy and describing any necessary 
     adjustments to the strategy.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

     SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION 
                   FUNDS.

       (a) Fiscal Year 2018 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds 
     Defined.--In this title, the term ``fiscal year 2018 
     Cooperative Threat Reduction funds'' means the funds 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 301 and made available by the funding table in 
     division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
     Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
     U.S.C. 3711).
       (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to 
     the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made 
     available by the funding table in division D for the 
     Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program 
     shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2018, 
     2019, and 2020.

     SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.

       (a) In General.--Of the $324,600,000 authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
     2018 in section 301 and made available by the funding table 
     in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative 
     Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of 
     the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for 
     the purposes specified:
       (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $12,100,000.
       (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $5,000,000.
       (3) For global nuclear security, $17,900,000.
       (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $172,800,000.
       (5) For proliferation prevention, $89,800,000.
       (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
     Administrative Costs, $27,000,000.
       (b) Modification to Certain Requirements.--The Department 
     of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3701 
     et seq.) is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 1321(g)(1) (50 U.S.C. 3711(g)(1)) is amended by 
     striking ``45 days'' and inserting ``15 days''.
       (2) Section 1324 (50 U.S.C. 3714) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking ``45 days'' and 
     inserting ``15 days''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``45 days'' and 
     inserting ``15 days''.
       (3) Section 1335(a) (50 U.S.C. 3735(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``or expended''.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

     SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense 
     for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
     for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
       (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under 
     subsection (a) are authorized for--
       (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
     in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
     Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
       (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
     United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such 
     Act.

     SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES 
                   DEFENSE-WIDE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
     Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4501.

     SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces 
     and other activities and agencies of the Department of 
     Defense in providing for the health of eligible 
     beneficiaries.

     SEC. 1406. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the National Defense Sealift Fund, as specified 
     in the funding table in section 4501.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

     SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR 
                   CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, 
                   ILLINOIS.

       (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by section 1405 and available 
     for the Defense Health Program for operation and maintenance, 
     $115,500,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense 
     to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund established by 
     subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
     123 Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such 
     section 1704, any funds so

[[Page H5603]]

     transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
     appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
       (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of 
     subsection (b) of such section 1704, facility operations for 
     which funds transferred under subsection (a) may be used are 
     operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
     Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs 
     Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
     supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal 
     medical facility under an operational agreement covered by 
     section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4500).

     SEC. 1412. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES 
                   RETIREMENT HOME.

       There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund 
     the sum of $64,300,000 for the operation of the Armed Forces 
     Retirement Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

     SEC. 1501. PURPOSE AND TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZATIONS OF 
                   APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize 
     appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
     2018 to provide additional funds--
       (1) for overseas contingency operations being carried out 
     by the Armed Forces; and
       (2) pursuant to sections 1502, 1503, 1504, and 1505 for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for procurement, 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, operation and 
     maintenance, and military personnel, as specified in the 
     funding tables in sections 4103, 4203, 4303, and 4403.
       (b) Treatment of Funds.-- The Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget shall apportion the funds identified in 
     subsection (a)(2) to the Department of Defense without 
     restriction, limitation, or constraint on the execution of 
     such funds in support of base requirements, including any 
     restriction, limitation, or constraint imposed by, or 
     described in, the document entitled ``Criteria for War/
     Overseas Contingency Operations Funding Requests'' 
     transmitted by the Director to the Department of Defense on 
     September 9, 2010, or any successor or related guidance.

     SEC. 1502. PROCUREMENT.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and 
     the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, 
     as specified in--
       (1) the funding table in section 4102; or
       (2) the funding table in section 4103.

     SEC. 1503. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Department of Defense for 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified 
     in--
       (1) the funding table in section 4202; or
       (2) the funding table in section 4203.

     SEC. 1504. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and 
     maintenance, as specified in--
       (1) the funding table in section 4302, or
       (2) the funding table in section 4303.

     SEC. 1505. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, 
     as specified in--
       (1) the funding table in section 4402; or
       (2) the funding table in section 4403..

     SEC. 1506. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     year 2018 for the use of the Armed Forces and other 
     activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
     providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1507. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, 
                   DEFENSE-WIDE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
     Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1508. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4502.

     SEC. 1509. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 for expenses, not 
     otherwise provided for, for the Defense Health Program, as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

     SEC. 1511. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

       The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are 
     in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act.

     SEC. 1512. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

       (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
       (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
     Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
     interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of 
     authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in 
     this title for fiscal year 2018 between any such 
     authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions 
     thereof).
       (2) Effect of transfer.--Amounts of authorizations 
     transferred under this subsection shall be merged with and be 
     available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
     transferred.
       (3) Limitations.--The total amount of authorizations that 
     the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
     subsection may not exceed $2,500,000,000.
       (4) Exception.--In the case of the authorizations of 
     appropriations contained in sections 1502, 1503, 1504, and 
     1505 that are provided for the purpose specified in section 
     1501(2), the transfer authority provided under section 1001, 
     rather than the transfer authority provided by this 
     subsection, shall apply to any transfer of amounts of such 
     authorizations.
       (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section 
     shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as 
     transfers under section 1001.
       (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided 
     by this section is in addition to the transfer authority 
     provided under section 1001.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

     SEC. 1521. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

       (a) Continuation Of Prior Authorities And Notice And 
     Reporting Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of 
     Defense for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal 
     year 2018 shall be subject to the conditions contained in 
     subsections (b) through (g) of section 1513 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
     110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the 
     Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4424).
       (b) Equipment Disposition.--
       (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph 
     (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is 
     procured using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces 
     Fund authorized under this Act and is intended for transfer 
     to the security forces of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by 
     such security forces.
       (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before 
     accepting any equipment under the authority provided by 
     paragraph (1), the Commander of United States forces in 
     Afghanistan shall make a determination that the equipment was 
     procured for the purpose of meeting requirements of the 
     security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the 
     Government of Afghanistan and the United States, but is no 
     longer required by such security forces or was damaged before 
     transfer to such security forces.
       (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination 
     under paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of 
     United States forces in Afghanistan shall consider 
     alternatives to Secretary of Defense acceptance of the 
     equipment. An explanation of each determination, including 
     the basis for the determination and the alternatives 
     considered, shall be included in the relevant quarterly 
     report required under paragraph (5).
       (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
     accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
     treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
     notification to the congressional defense committees of such 
     treatment.
       (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--Not later 
     than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
     every 90-day period thereafter during which the authority 
     provided by paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a report describing the equipment accepted under this 
     subsection, section 1531(d) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 
     127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), section 1532(b) of the 
     Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3612), section 1531(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
     129 Stat. 1088), and section 1521(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) 
     during the period covered by the report. Each report shall 
     include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
     period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the 
     Department and copies of the determinations made under 
     paragraph (2), as required by paragraph (3).
       (c) Allocation of Funds.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds available to the Department 
     of Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund for fiscal 
     year 2018, it is the goal that $41,000,000 shall be used 
     for--
       (A) the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
     treatment of women in the Afghan National Security Forces; 
     and
       (B) the recruitment, training, and contracting of female 
     security personnel for future elections.
       (2) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs and 
     activities may include--
       (A) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan National 
     Security Forces, including the special operations forces;
       (B) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry of 
     Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender Integration 
     and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office of Human Rights, 
     Gender and Child Rights;
       (C) development and dissemination of gender and human 
     rights educational and training materials and programs within 
     the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the Afghan Ministry of 
     Interior;

[[Page H5604]]

       (D) efforts to address harassment and violence against 
     women within the Afghan National Security Forces;
       (E) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
     requirements of women serving in the Afghan National Security 
     Forces, including appropriate equipment for female security 
     and police forces, and transportation for policewomen to 
     their station;
       (F) support for Afghanistan National Police Family Response 
     Units; and
       (G) security provisions for high-profile female police and 
     army officers.
       (d) Assessment of Afghanistan Progress on Security 
     Objectives.--
       (1) Assessment required.--Not later than June 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     State, shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate an assessment 
     describing the progress of the government of the Islamic 
     Republic of Afghanistan toward meeting shared security 
     objectives. In conducting such assessment the Secretary shall 
     consider each of the following:
       (A) The extent to which the government of Afghanistan has 
     taken steps toward increased accountability and reducing 
     corruption within the Ministries of Defense and Interior.
       (B) The extent to which the capability and capacity of the 
     Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have improved as 
     a result of Afghan Security Forces Fund investment, including 
     through training.
       (C) The extent to which the Afghan National Defense and 
     Security Forces have been able to increase pressure on the 
     Taliban, al-Qaeda, the Haqqani network, and other terrorist 
     organizations, including by re-taking territory, defending 
     territory, and disrupting attacks.
       (D) Whether or not the government of Afghanistan is 
     ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry supplied by 
     the United States are appropriately distributed to security 
     forces charged with fighting the Taliban and other terrorist 
     organizations.
       (E) Such other factors as the Secretaries consider 
     appropriate.
       (2) Withholding of assistance for insufficient progress.--
       (A) In general.--If the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of State, determines pursuant 
     to the assessment under paragraph (1) that the government of 
     Afghanistan has made insufficient progress, the Secretary of 
     Defense may withhold assistance for the Afghan National 
     Defense and Security Forces until such time as the Secretary 
     determines sufficient progress has been made.
       (B) Notice to congress.--If the Secretary of Defense 
     withholds assistance under subparagraph (A), the Secretary, 
     in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall provide 
     notice to Congress not later than 30 days after making the 
     decision to withhold such assistance.

     SEC. 1522. JOINT IMPROVISED-THREAT DEFEAT FUND.

       (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--Subsections (b) and (c) of 
     section 1514 of the John Warner National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
     120 Stat. 2439), as in effect before the amendments made by 
     section 1503 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
     122 Stat. 4649), shall apply to the funds made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 to the Department of Defense for the Joint 
     Improvised-Threat Defeat Fund.
       (b) Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device Precursor 
     Chemicals.--
       (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds made available to 
     the Department of Defense for the Joint Improvised-Threat 
     Defeat Fund for fiscal year 2018, $15,000,000 may be 
     available to the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
     of the Secretary of State, to provide training, equipment, 
     supplies, and services to ministries and other entities of 
     foreign governments that the Secretary has identified as 
     critical for countering the flow of improvised explosive 
     device precursor chemicals.
       (2) Provision through other us agencies.--If jointly agreed 
     upon by the Secretary of Defense and the head of another 
     department or agency of the United States Government, the 
     Secretary of Defense may transfer funds available under 
     paragraph (1) to such department or agency for the provision 
     by such department or agency of training, equipment, 
     supplies, and services to ministries and other entities of 
     foreign governments as described in that paragraph.
       (3) Notice to congress.--None of the funds made available 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended to 
     supply training, equipment, supplies, or services to a 
     foreign country before the date that is 15 days after the 
     date on which the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
     the Secretary of State, submits to the Committee on Armed 
     Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
     and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notice that 
     contains--
       (A) the foreign country for which training, equipment, 
     supplies, or services are proposed to be supplied;
       (B) a description of the training, equipment, supplies, and 
     services to be provided using such funds;
       (C) a detailed description of the amount of funds proposed 
     to be obligated or expended to supply such training, 
     equipment, supplies or services, including any funds proposed 
     to be obligated or expended to support the participation of 
     another department or agency of the United States and a 
     description of the training, equipment, supplies, or services 
     proposed to be supplied;
       (D) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the efforts of 
     the foreign country identified under subparagraph (A) to 
     counter the flow of improvised explosive device precursor 
     chemicals; and
       (E) an overall plan for countering the flow of precursor 
     chemicals in the foreign country identified under 
     subparagraph (A).
       (4) Expiration.--The authority provided by this subsection 
     expires on December 31, 2018.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

       Subtitle A--Management and Organization of Space Programs

     SEC. 1601. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPACE CORPS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   THE AIR FORCE.

       (a) Certification.--Not later than January 1, 2019, the 
     Secretary of the Air Force shall certify to the congressional 
     defense committees that the Space Corps under chapter 809 of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (b), is 
     established.
       (b) Establishment.--
       (1) In general.--Part I of subtitle D of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new chapter:

                       ``CHAPTER 809--SPACE CORPS

``Subchapter                                                       Sec.
``I. General Matters...........................................8091....

``II. Organization.............................................8096....

                    ``SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL MATTERS

``Sec.
``8091. Establishment.
``8092. Authorities and Responsibilities.
``8093. Research and development and procurement of satellites and 
              terminals.
``8094. Space functions of other elements of Department of Defense.

     ``Sec. 8091. Establishment

       ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than January 1, 2019, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall establish in the executive part of 
     the Department of the Air Force a Space Corps. The function 
     of the Space Corps shall be to assist the Secretary of the 
     Air Force in carrying out the duties described in subsection 
     (c).
       ``(b) Composition.--The Space Corps shall be composed of 
     the following:
       ``(1) The Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.
       ``(2) Such other offices and officials as may be 
     established by law or as the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
     consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Space Corps, may 
     establish or designate.
       ``(c) Duties.--Except as otherwise specifically prescribed 
     by law, the Space Corps shall be organized in such manner, 
     and the members of the Space Corps shall perform, such duties 
     and have such titles, as the Secretary may prescribe. Such 
     duties shall include--
       ``(1) protecting the interests of the United States in 
     space;
       ``(2) deterring aggression in, from, and through space;
       ``(3) providing combat-ready space forces that enable the 
     commanders of the combatant commands to fight and win wars;
       ``(4) organizing, training, and equipping space forces; and
       ``(5) conducting space operations of the Space Corps under 
     the command of the Commander of the United States Space 
     Command.

     ``Sec. 8092. Authorities and responsibilities

       ``(a) Professional Assistance.--The Chief of Staff of the 
     Space Corps shall furnish professional assistance to the 
     Secretary, the Under Secretary, and the Assistant Secretaries 
     of the Air Force.
       ``(b) Authorities.--Under the authority, direction, and 
     control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff 
     of the Space Corps, shall--
       ``(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 8014 of 
     this title, prepare for such employment of the Space Corps, 
     and for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping 
     (including research and development), training, servicing, 
     mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining of 
     the Space Corps, as will assist in the execution of any 
     power, duty, or function of the Secretary or the Chief of 
     Staff;
       ``(2) investigate and report upon the efficiency of the 
     Space Corps and its preparation to support military 
     operations by commanders of the combatant commands;
       ``(3) prepare detailed instructions for the execution of 
     approved plans and supervise the execution of those plans and 
     instructions;
       ``(4) as directed by the Secretary, coordinate the action 
     of organizations of the Space Corps; and
       ``(5) perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by 
     law, as may be prescribed by the Secretary.
       ``(c) Functions.--To the extent practicable, the Secretary 
     shall provide to the Space Corps the functions of the 
     Department of the Air Force that may be feasibly shared with 
     the Space Corps, including with respect to the United States 
     Air Force Academy, recruitment, and basic training.

     ``Sec. 8093. Research and development and procurement of 
       satellites and terminals

       ``(a) Research and Development.--The Secretary of the Air 
     Force shall serve as the primary agent of the Department of 
     Defense with respect to the research, development, test, and 
     evaluation of satellites and user satellite terminals used by 
     the Air Force, the Space Corps, and the Defense Agencies 
     (except as otherwise provided by section 8094 of this title).
       ``(b) Procurement.--The Secretary shall serve as the 
     primary agent of the Department of Defense with respect to 
     the procurement of satellites and user satellite terminals 
     used by the military departments and the Defense Agencies 
     (except as otherwise provided by section 8094 of this title).
       ``(c) Milestone Decision Authority.--(1) Notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law,

[[Page H5605]]

     and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
     serve as the milestone decision authority (as defined in 
     section 2366a of this title) for major defense acquisition 
     programs or major subprograms relating to space.
       ``(2) The Secretary may not serve as the milestone decision 
     authority for the user satellite terminal programs of--
       ``(A) the military departments other than the Air Force and 
     the Space Corps; and
       ``(B) the Defense Agencies specified in section 8094(c)(1) 
     of this title.
       ``(d) Requirements.--The Chief of Staff of the Space Corps 
     shall develop the requirements for the satellites and user 
     satellite terminals for which the Secretary has the authority 
     for research, development, test, and evaluation, procurement, 
     and milestone decisions pursuant to this section.

     ``Sec. 8094. Space functions of other elements of Department 
       of Defense

       ``(a) Military Departments.--Nothing in this chapter shall 
     affect the authority of each Secretary concerned to--
       ``(1) carry out the research, development, test, and 
     evaluation of satellites and user satellite terminals of the 
     military department of the Secretary concerned;
       ``(2) operate such terminals; and
       ``(3) develop requirements to ensure that the space 
     programs of the Department of Defense support the mission of 
     the Secretary concerned.
       ``(b) Certain Defense Agencies.--Nothing in this chapter 
     shall affect the authority of each Director concerned to--
       ``(1) carry out the research, development, test, and 
     evaluation and procurement of satellites and user satellite 
     terminals of the Defense Agency of the Director concerned;
       ``(2) operate such terminals; and
       ``(3) develop requirements to ensure that the space 
     programs of the Department of Defense support the mission of 
     the Director concerned.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `Director concerned' means--
       ``(A) the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, 
     with respect to matters concerning the National 
     Reconnaissance Office; and
       ``(B) the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence 
     Agency, with respect to matters concerning the National 
     Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
       ``(2) The term `Secretary concerned' means--
       ``(A) the Secretary of the Army, with respect to matters 
     concerning the Army; and
       ``(B) the Secretary of the Navy, with respect to matters 
     concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard 
     when it is operating as a service in the Department of the 
     Navy.

                     ``SUBCHAPTER II--ORGANIZATION

``Sec.
``8096. Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.

     ``Sec. 8096. Chief of Staff of the Space Corps

       ``(a) Appointment.--(1) There shall be a Chief of Staff of 
     the Space Corps, appointed by the President, by and with the 
     advice and consent of the Senate. The Chief of Staff shall 
     serve at the pleasure of the President.
       ``(2) The Chief of Staff shall be appointed for a term of 
     six years. In time of war or during a national emergency 
     declared by Congress, the Chief of Staff may be reappointed 
     for a term of not more than six years.
       ``(3)(A) The first Chief of Staff appointed after the date 
     of the enactment of this section shall be appointed from the 
     general officers of the Air Force. The President may appoint 
     the incumbent Commander of the Air Force Space Command as the 
     first such Chief of Staff without regard to the requirement 
     in paragraph (1) for the advice and consent of the Senate.
       ``(B) Each subsequent Chief of Staff shall be appointed 
     from the general officers of the Space Corps.
       ``(4) The President may appoint an officer as Chief of 
     Staff only if--
       ``(A) the officer has had significant experience in joint 
     duty assignments; and
       ``(B) such experience includes at least one full tour of 
     duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(d) 
     of this title) as a general officer.
       ``(5) The President may waive paragraph (4) in the case of 
     an officer if the President determines such action is 
     necessary in the national interest.
       ``(b) Grade.--The Chief of Staff of the Space Corps, while 
     so serving, has the grade of general without vacating the 
     permanent grade of the officer.
       ``(c) Reporting.--Except as otherwise prescribed by law and 
     subject to section 8013(f) of this title, the Chief of Staff 
     of the Space Corps performs the duties of such position under 
     the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the 
     Air Force and is directly responsible to the Secretary.
       ``(d) Duties.--Subject to the authority, direction, and 
     control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff 
     of the Space Corps shall--
       ``(1) preside over the Space Corps;
       ``(2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Space 
     Corps to the Secretary and advise the Secretary with regard 
     to such plans and recommendations;
       ``(3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the 
     Space Corps by the Secretary, act as the agent of the 
     Secretary in carrying them into effect;
       ``(4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority 
     assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant 
     commands under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the 
     members and organizations of the Space Corps and the Air 
     Force as the Secretary determines;
       ``(5) perform the duties prescribed for the Chief of Staff 
     by sections 171 and 2547 of this title and other provisions 
     of law; and
       ``(6) perform such other military duties, not otherwise 
     assigned by law, as are assigned to the Chief of Staff by the 
     President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the 
     Air Force.
       ``(e) Joint Chiefs of Staff.--(1) The Chief of Staff of the 
     Space Corps shall also perform the duties prescribed for the 
     Chief of Staff as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under 
     section 151 of this title.
       ``(2) To the extent that such action does not impair the 
     independence of the Chief of Staff in the performance of the 
     duties of the Chief of Staff as a member of the Joint Chiefs 
     of Staff, the Chief of Staff shall inform the Secretary 
     regarding military advice rendered by members of the Joint 
     Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting the Department of the 
     Air Force.
       ``(3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of 
     the Secretary of Defense, the Chief of Staff shall keep the 
     Secretary of the Air Force fully informed of significant 
     military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities 
     of the Secretary.''.
       (2) Clerical amendments.--The table of chapters at the 
     beginning of subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, and 
     at the beginning of part I of such subtitle, are each amended 
     by inserting after the item relating to chapter 807 the 
     following new item:

``809. Space Corps.........................................8091.''.....

       (c) Joint Chiefs of Staff.--Chapter 5 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) In section 151(a), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(8) The Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.''.
       (2) In section 152(b)(1)(B), by striking ``or the 
     Commandant of the Marine Corps'' and inserting ``the 
     Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Chief of Staff of the 
     Space Corps''.
       (d) Armed Forces Policy Council.--Section 171 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (12), by striking ``; and'';
       (2) in paragraph (13), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(14) the Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.''.
       (e) Chief of Service.--Section 1406(i)(3)(A) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new clause:
       ``(vi) Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.''.
       (f) Acquisition-related Functions of Chiefs of the Armed 
     Forces.--Section 2547(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``and the Commandant of the Marine 
     Corps'' and inserting ``the Commandant of the Marine Corps, 
     and the Chief of Staff of the Space Corps''.
       (g) Successors to Duties.--Section 8017 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(4) The Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
       ``(5) The Chief of Staff of the Space Corps.''.
       (h) Termination of Principal Department of Defense Space 
     Advisor and Defense Space Council.--Effective on the date on 
     which the Space Corps is established under section 8091 of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1)--
       (1) the position, and the office of, the Principal 
     Department of Defense Space Advisor (previously known as the 
     Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space) shall be 
     terminated;
       (2) the personnel of such office shall be transferred to 
     the Air Force and to the Space Corps, as determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary of Defense;
       (3) any reference in Federal law, regulations, guidance, 
     instructions, or other documents of the Federal Government to 
     the Principal Department of Defense Space Advisor or the 
     Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space shall be 
     deemed to be a reference to the Secretary of the Air Force or 
     the Chief of Staff of the Space Corps, as appropriate; and
       (4) the Defense Space Council shall be terminated.
       (i) Military Installations.--Nothing in this section, or 
     the amendments made by this section, shall be construed to 
     authorize or require the relocation of any facility, 
     infrastructure, or military installation of the Air Force.
       (j) Reports.--
       (1) Interim report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees an interim report on the Space Corps 
     established under chapter 809 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), that includes--
       (A) a review of the organizational and management structure 
     of the Space Corps; and
       (B) recommendations for the modification and improvement of 
     such organizational and management structure.
       (2) Final report.--Not later than August 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
     defense committees a final report on the Space Corps that 
     includes--
       (A) an update of the review and recommendations described 
     in paragraph (1), including recommendations for any necessary 
     revisions to appointments and qualifications, duties and 
     powers, and precedent in the Department of Defense;
       (B) recommendations for the appropriate sharing of 
     functions between the Air Force and the Space Corps, 
     including functions with respect to personnel matters and 
     uniforms;
       (C) a plan for implementing the recommendations described 
     in subparagraphs (A) and (B), which shall include proposed 
     legislative and administrative actions, including conforming 
     and other amendments to law, that the Secretary determines to 
     be appropriate for carrying out such plan;
       (D) the estimated number of general officers of the Space 
     Corps, including an identification of the current positions 
     of such general officers that will be transferred to the 
     Space Corps and whether the Secretary determines it necessary 
     for the number of general officers authorized in chapter 32 
     of title 10, United States Code, to be increased; and

[[Page H5606]]

       (E) any other matters that the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.

     SEC. 1602. ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBORDINATE UNIFIED COMMAND OF 
                   THE UNITED STATES STRATEGIC COMMAND.

       (a) Subordinate Unified Command.--Not later than January 1, 
     2019, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a subordinate 
     unified command to be known as the United States Space 
     Command under the United States Strategic Command.
       (b) Commander.--The Commander of the United States Space 
     Command shall hold the grade of general or, in the case of an 
     officer of the Navy, admiral while serving in that position, 
     without vacating the permanent grade of the officer. The 
     Commander shall be appointed to that grade by the President, 
     by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for service 
     in that position.
       (c) Command of Joint Space Activity or Missions.--Unless 
     otherwise directed by the President or the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Commander of the United States Space Command 
     shall exercise command of joint space activities or missions.
       (d) Jointly Staffed.--The United States Space Command shall 
     be jointly staffed.

                      Subtitle B--Space Activities

     SEC. 1611. CODIFICATION, EXTENSION, AND MODIFICATION OF 
                   LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION ON UNITED STATES 
                   TERRITORY OF SATELLITE POSITIONING GROUND 
                   MONITORING STATIONS OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.

       (a) Codification, Extension, and Modification.--Chapter 135 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
     end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 2279c. Limitation on construction on United States 
       territory of satellite positioning ground monitoring 
       stations of certain foreign governments.

       ``(b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall 
     not apply to foreign governments that are allies of the 
     United States.
       ``(c) Sunset.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall 
     terminate on December 31, 2023.''.
       (b) Transfer of Provision.--Subsection (b) of section 1602 
     of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2281 note) is--
       (1) transferred to section 2279c of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a);
       (2) inserted as the first subsection of such section;
       (3) redesignated as subsection (a); and
       (4) amended--
       (A) by amending the subsection heading to read as follows: 
     ``Limitation''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (6).

     SEC. 1612. FOREIGN COMMERCIAL SATELLITE SERVICES: 
                   CYBERSECURITY THREATS AND LAUNCHES.

       (a) Cybersecurity Risks.--Subsection (a) of section 2279 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
     semicolon;
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting: ``; or''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) entering into such contract would create a 
     cybersecurity risk for the Department of Defense.''.
       (b) Launches.--
       (1) In general.--Such section is amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as 
     subsections (c) through (f), respectively; and
       (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection (b):
       ``(b) Launches and Manufacturers.--
       ``(1) Limitation.--In addition to the prohibition in 
     subsection (a), and except as provided in subsection (c), the 
     Secretary may not enter into a contract for satellite 
     services with any entity if the Secretary reasonably believes 
     that such satellite services will be provided using 
     satellites that will be--
       ``(A) designed or manufactured in a covered foreign 
     country, or by an entity controlled in whole or in part by, 
     or acting on behalf of, the government of a covered foreign 
     country; or
       ``(B) launched using a launch vehicle that is designed or 
     manufactured in a covered foreign country, or that is 
     provided by the government of a covered foreign country or by 
     an entity controlled in whole or in part by, or acting on 
     behalf of, the government of a covered foreign country, 
     regardless of the location of the launch (unless such 
     location is in the United States).
       ``(2) United states launches.--The limitation in paragraph 
     (1) shall not--
       ``(A) apply to launches in the United States using launch 
     vehicles with engines designed or manufactured in or provided 
     by any entity of the Russian Federation; or
       ``(B) affect any other provision of law authorizing the use 
     of Russian rocket engines within a United States launch 
     vehicle.
       ``(3) Launch vehicle defined.--In this subsection, the term 
     `launch vehicle' means a fully integrated space launch 
     vehicle.''.
       (2) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (b) of 
     section 2279 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     paragraph (1), shall not apply with respect to--
       (A) a launch that occurred prior to the date that is six 
     months after the date of the enactment of this Act; or
       (B) a contract or other agreement relating to launch 
     services that, prior to the date that is six months after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, was either fully paid for 
     by the contractor or covered by a legally binding commitment 
     of the contractor to pay for such services.
       (c) Definitions.--Subsection (f) of section 2279 of title 
     10, United States Code, as redesignated by subsection 
     (b)(1)(A), is amended to read as follows:
       ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `covered foreign country' means any of the 
     following:
       ``(A) A country described in section 1261(c)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
     (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2019).
       ``(B) The Russian Federation.
       ``(2) The term `cybersecurity risk' means threats to and 
     vulnerabilities of information or information systems and any 
     related consequences caused by or resulting from unauthorized 
     access, use, disclosure, degradation, disruption, 
     modification, or destruction of such information or 
     information systems, including such related consequences 
     caused by an act of terrorism.''.
       (d) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Conforming amendments.--Such section 2279 is further 
     amended--
       (A) in the section heading, by striking ``services'' and 
     inserting ``services and foreign launches'';
       (B) by striking ``subsection (b)'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``subsection (c)'';
       (C) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``launch or other'';
       (D) in subsection (c), as redesignated by subsection 
     (b)(1), by striking ``prohibition in subsection (a)'' and 
     inserting ``prohibitions in subsection (a) and (b)''; and
       (E) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``prohibition under subsection (a)'' and inserting 
     ``prohibition under subsection (a) or (b)''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking the item relating to section 2279 and 
     inserting the following:

``2279. Foreign commercial satellite services and foreign launches.''.
       (e) Application.--Except as provided by subsection (b)(2), 
     the amendments made by this section shall apply with respect 
     to contracts for satellite services awarded by the Secretary 
     of Defense on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1613. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON COMMERCIAL WEATHER 
                   DATA.

       Section 1613 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``one year'' and 
     inserting ``two years'';
       (2) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by striking ``Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``appropriate congressional committees''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In 
     this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
     committees' means--
       ``(A) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     the House of Representatives; and
       ``(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate 
     and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives.''.

     SEC. 1614. CONDITIONAL TRANSFER OF ACQUISITION AND FUNDING 
                   AUTHORITY OF CERTAIN WEATHER MISSIONS TO 
                   NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.

       Section 1614 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsection (d):
       ``(d) Implementation of Plans.--The Secretary of the Air 
     Force shall implement the plan developed under paragraph (1) 
     of subsection (b), and the Director of the National 
     Reconnaissance Office shall implement the plan developed 
     under paragraph (2) of such subsection, unless the Secretary 
     and the Director each make a waiver under subsection (c).''.

     SEC. 1615. EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE MODERNIZATION 
                   AND SUSTAINMENT OF ASSURED ACCESS TO SPACE.

       (a) Development.--
       (1) Evolved expendable launch vehicle.--Using funds 
     described in paragraph (3), the Secretary of Defense may only 
     obligate or expend funds to carry out the evolved expendable 
     launch vehicle program to--
       (A) develop a domestic rocket propulsion system to replace 
     non-allied space launch engines;
       (B) develop the necessary interfaces to, or integration of, 
     such domestic rocket propulsion system with an existing or 
     new launch vehicle;
       (C) develop capabilities necessary to enable commercially 
     available space launch vehicles or infrastructure to meet any 
     requirements that are unique to national security space 
     missions to meet the assured access to space requirements 
     pursuant to section 2273 of title 10, United States Code, 
     with respect to only--
       (i) modifications to such vehicles required for national 
     security space missions, including--

       (I) certification and compliance of such vehicles for use 
     in national security space missions;
       (II) fairings necessary for the launch of national security 
     space payloads to orbit; and
       (III) other upgrades to meet performance, reliability, and 
     orbital requirements that cannot otherwise be met through the 
     use of commercially available launch vehicles; and

       (ii) the development of infrastructure unique to national 
     security space missions, such as infrastructure for the use 
     of heavy launch vehicles, including--

       (I) facilities and equipment for the vertical integration 
     of payloads;
       (II) secure facilities for the processing of classified 
     payloads; and

[[Page H5607]]

       (III) other facilities and equipment, including ground 
     systems and expanded capabilities, unique to national 
     security space launches and the launch of national security 
     payloads;

       (D) conduct activities to modernize and improve existing 
     certified launch vehicles, or existing launch vehicles 
     previously contracted for use by the Air Force, including 
     restarting a dormant supply chain, and infrastructure to 
     increase the cost effectiveness of the launch system;
       (E) certify new, modified, or existing launch vehicle 
     systems; or
       (F) develop, design, and integrate parts for new launch 
     vehicle systems to the extent such parts are developed 
     primarily for national security use.
       (2) Prohibition.--Except as provided in this section, none 
     of the funds described in paragraph (3) shall be obligated or 
     expended for the evolved expendable launch vehicle program, 
     including the development of new launch vehicles under such 
     program.
       (3) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph 
     are the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for research, 
     development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the evolved 
     expendable launch vehicle program.
       (b) Other Authorities.--Nothing in this section shall 
     affect or prohibit the Secretary from procuring launch 
     services of evolved expendable launch vehicle launch systems, 
     including with respect to any associated operation and 
     maintenance of capabilities and infrastructure relating to 
     such systems.
       (c) Notification.--Not later than 30 days before any date 
     on which the Secretary publishes a draft or final request for 
     proposals, or obligates funds, for the development under 
     subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall notify the 
     congressional defense committees of such proposed draft or 
     final request for proposals or proposed obligation, as the 
     case may be. If such proposed draft or final request for 
     proposals or proposed obligation relates to intelligence 
     requirements, the Secretary shall also notify the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate.
       (d) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination 
     with the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate a report containing an assessment of the most 
     cost-effective method to meet the assured access to space 
     requirements pursuant to section 2273 of title 10, United 
     States Code, with respect to each of the following periods:
       (1) The five-year period beginning on the date of the 
     report.
       (2) The 10-year period beginning on the date of the report.
       (3) The period consisting of the full lifecycle of the 
     evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
       (e) Rocket Propulsion System Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``rocket propulsion system'' means, with respect to the 
     development authorized by subsection (a)(1), a main booster, 
     first-stage rocket engine (including such an engine using 
     kerosene or methane-based or other propellant) or motor. The 
     term does not include a launch vehicle, an upper stage, a 
     strap-on motor, or related infrastructure.

     SEC. 1616. COMMERCIAL SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS PATHFINDER 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the Sense of Congress that 
     the Secretary of the Air Force should--
       (1) use the acquisition authority under the pathfinder 
     program to acquire, from commercial providers, satellite 
     bandwidth, ground services, and advanced services; and
       (2) use the transaction authority provided by section 2371 
     of title 10, United States Code, to make a portion of such 
     acquisitions.
       (b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
     report that includes the views and plans of the Secretary 
     with respect to making a portion of the acquisitions 
     described in subsection (a)(1) using the transaction 
     authority provided by section 2371 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``pathfinder 
     program'' means the commercial satellite communications 
     programs of the Air Force designed to demonstrate the 
     feasibility of new, alternative acquisition and procurement 
     models for commercial satellite communications.

     SEC. 1617. DEMONSTRATION OF BACKUP AND COMPLEMENTARY 
                   POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
                   CAPABILITIES OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM.

       (a) Plan.--During fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security (referred to in this section as the 
     ``Secretaries'') shall jointly develop a plan for carrying 
     out a backup GPS capability demonstration. The plan shall--
       (1) be based on the results of the study conducted under 
     section 1618 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2595); and
       (2) include the activities that the Secretaries determine 
     necessary to carry out such demonstration.
       (b) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall provide to 
     the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the 
     plan developed under subsection (a). The briefing shall 
     include--
       (1) identification of the sectors that would be expected to 
     participate in the backup GPS capability demonstration 
     described in the plan;
       (2) an estimate of the costs of implementing the 
     demonstration in each sector identified in paragraph (1); and
       (3) an explanation of the extent to which the demonstration 
     may be carried out with the funds appropriated for such 
     purpose.
       (c) Implementation.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
     appropriations and beginning not earlier than the day after 
     the date on which the briefing is provided under subsection 
     (b), the Secretaries shall jointly initiate the backup GPS 
     capability demonstration to the extent described under 
     subsection (b)(3).
       (2) Termination.--The authority to carry out the backup GPS 
     capability demonstration under paragraph (1) shall terminate 
     on the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the backup 
     GPS capability demonstration carried out under subsection (c) 
     that includes--
       (1) a description of the opportunities and challenges 
     learned from such demonstration; and
       (2) a description of the next actions the Secretaries 
     determine appropriate to backup and complement the 
     positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities of the 
     Global Positioning System for national security and critical 
     infrastructure, including, at a minimum, the timeline and 
     funding required to issue a request for proposals for such 
     capabilities.
       (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to carry out this section for fiscal year 
     2018 not more than $10,000,000 for the Department of Defense, 
     as specified in the funding tables in division D.
       (f) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``backup GPS capability demonstration'' means 
     a proof-of-concept demonstration of capabilities to backup 
     and complement the positioning, navigation, and timing 
     capabilities of the Global Positioning System for national 
     security and critical infrastructure.

     SEC. 1618. ENHANCEMENT OF POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
                   CAPACITY.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
     implement a plan to increase the positioning, navigation, and 
     timing capacity of the Department of Defense to provide 
     resilience to the positioning, navigation, and timing 
     capabilities of the Department. Such plan shall--
       (1) ensure that military Global Positioning System user 
     equipment terminals have the capability to receive signals 
     from the Galileo satellites of the European Union and the 
     QZSS satellites of Japan, beginning with increment 2 of the 
     acquisition of such terminals;
       (2) include an assessment of the feasibility, benefits, and 
     risks of military Global Positioning System user equipment 
     terminals having the capability to receive foreign 
     positioning, navigation, and timing signals (with respect to 
     such signals described in the classified annex accompanying 
     this Act), beginning with increment 2 of the acquisition of 
     such terminals;
       (3) include an assessment of options to use hosted payloads 
     to provide redundancy for the Global Positioning System 
     signal;
       (4) ensure that the Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
     Secretary of State, engages with relevant allies of the 
     United States to--
       (A) enable military Global Positioning System user 
     equipment terminals to receive the positioning, navigation, 
     and timing signals of such allies; and
       (B) negotiate other potential agreements relating to the 
     enhancement of positioning, navigation, and timing;
       (5) include any other options the Secretary of Defense 
     determines appropriate; and
       (6) include an evaluation by the Director of National 
     Intelligence of the benefits and risks, if any, of using 
     foreign positioning, navigation, and timing signals.
       (b) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
       (1) submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, 
     and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate the plan 
     under subsection (a); and
       (2) submit to the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate the evaluation 
     described in paragraph (6) of such subsection.

     SEC. 1619. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPACE FLAG TRAINING EVENT.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall establish an annual capstone 
     training event titled ``Space Flag'' for space professionals 
     to--
       (1) develop and test doctrine, concepts of operation, and 
     tactics, techniques, and procedures, for--
       (A) protecting and defending assets and interests of the 
     United States through the spectrum of space control 
     activities;
       (B) operating in the event of degradation or loss of space 
     capabilities;
       (C) conducting space operations in a conflict that extends 
     to space;

[[Page H5608]]

       (D) deterring conflict in space; and
       (E) other areas the Secretary determines necessary; and
       (2) inform and develop the appropriate design of the 
     operational training infrastructure of the space domain, 
     including with respect to appropriate and dedicated ranges, 
     threat replication, test community support, advanced space 
     training requirements, training simulators, and multi-domain 
     force packaging.
       (b) Training.--In establishing the Space Flag training 
     event under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
       (1) model the training event on the Red Flag and Cyber Flag 
     exercises; and
       (2) ensure that Space Flag includes live, virtual, and 
     constructive training and on-orbit threat replication, as 
     appropriate.
       (c) Plan.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with 
     the Commander of the Air Force Space Command, the Commander 
     of the Army Space and Missile Defense Command, and the 
     Commander of the Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems 
     Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan to establish the Space Flag training under subsection 
     (a), including a description of each objective of the 
     training.

     SEC. 1620. REPORT ON OPERATIONAL AND CONTINGENCY PLANS FOR 
                   LOSS OR DEGRADATION OF SPACE CAPABILITIES.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in coordination with 
     each commander of a combatant command, shall jointly submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     evaluating all operational and contingency plans to assess 
     the implications for mission performance in the event of a 
     loss or degradation of space capabilities of the United 
     States (including with respect to space control) either 
     through the loss or degradation of on-orbit assets or through 
     the disabling of ground components.
       (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) 
     shall address and describe the extent to which the 
     operational and contingency plans described in such 
     subsection--
       (1) depend upon space capabilities to achieve successful 
     execution;
       (2) account for the loss or degradation of space 
     capabilities;
       (3) appropriately reflect intelligence concerning current 
     and projected adversary counter-space capabilities and 
     vulnerabilities of the space systems of the United States;
       (4) include measures to mitigate any loss or degradation of 
     space capabilities;
       (5) include specific guidance for the short- and long-term 
     loss or disruption of space capabilities;
       (6) include specific guidance for the period in which there 
     is a total loss of space capabilities before replacement 
     assets are able to be brought online and operational; and
       (7) assess the extent to which adversaries rely on space, 
     including the potential effects of a short or long term loss 
     of, or disruption to, the space capabilities of such 
     adversaries.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
     the following:
       (A) With respect to the full report under subsection (a), 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       (B) With respect to the matters in the report described in 
     subsection (b)(3), and for any other matters in the report 
     relating to the limitations, impacts, and vulnerabilities of 
     the capabilities and systems of the intelligence community, 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
     of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act 
     of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

     SEC. 1621. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDING FOR JOINT 
                   SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER MISSION SYSTEM.

       (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for the Joint Space Operations Center mission system, not 
     more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the 
     date on which the Secretary of the Air Force certifies to the 
     congressional defense committees that the Secretary has 
     developed the plan under subsection (b).
       (b) Plan.--The Secretary shall develop and implement a plan 
     to operationalize existing commercial space situational 
     awareness capabilities to address warfighter requirements, 
     consistent with the best-in-breed concept. The Secretary 
     shall commence such implementation by not later than March 
     30, 2018.

     SEC. 1622. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO 
                   ADVANCED EXTREMELY HIGH FREQUENCY PROGRAM.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for research, development, test, and 
     evaluation, Air Force, for protected tactical enterprise (PE 
     1206760F), protected tactical service (PE 1206761F), or 
     protected satellite communication services (PE 1206855F) for 
     the Evolved Strategic SATCOM (EES) system, may be obligated 
     or expended on a final request for proposals, other than 
     evolution of the AEHF program of record until the date on 
     which the reports required under subsection (b) are submitted 
     to the congressional defense committees.
       (b) Assessments and Certifications.--
       (1) The Commanders of STRATCOM and NORTHCOM jointly 
     certifies a protected satcom system other than the AEHF 
     program of record or an evolution of the same will meet all 
     applicable requirements for Nuclear Command and Control and 
     continuity of government, and all other functions related to 
     protected communications of the National Command Authority 
     and the Combatant Commands, to include operational forces in 
     a peer-near-peer jamming environment;
       (2) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff submits the 
     validated military requirement for resilience and mission 
     assurance, and the criteria to measure and evaluate the same, 
     of each and any alternative to an evolved advanced extremely 
     high frequency program; how each alternative affects 
     deterrence and full spectrum warfighting, warfighter 
     requirements and relative costs, including with respect to 
     ground station and user terminals; the assessed order of 
     battle of adversaries; and the required capabilities of the 
     broader space security and defense enterprise;
       (3) The Secretary of the Air Force submits a detailed plan 
     for the ground control system and all user terminals 
     developed and acquired by the Air Force will be synchronized 
     through development and deployment to meet all applicable 
     requirements for Nuclear Command and Control and continuity 
     of government, and other functions related to protected 
     communications of the National Command Authority and the 
     Combatant Commands; and
       (4) The Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff completes an 
     assessment concerning the impact of developing and fielding 
     all the waveforms and terminals required to utilize the 
     proposed alternative systems to the AEHF program of record or 
     an evolution of the same.
       (c) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (a) shall not 
     apply to efforts to examine and develop technology insertion 
     opportunities for the satellite communications programs of 
     record.
       (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed as delaying the request for proposals for the 
     Enhanced Advanced Extremely High Frequency (E-AEHF) program.

  Subtitle C--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

     SEC. 1631. SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR FACILITIES OF CERTAIN 
                   CONTRACTORS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 141 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``Sec. 2410s. Security clearances for facilities of certain 
       contractors.

       ``If the senior management official of a contractor of the 
     Department of Defense does not have a security clearance, the 
     Secretary of Defense may grant a security clearance to a 
     facility of such contractor only if the following criteria 
     are met:
       ``(1) The contractor has appointed a senior officer, 
     director, or employee of the contractor who has a security 
     clearance at the level of the security clearance of the 
     facility to act as the senior management official of the 
     contractor with respect to such facility.
       ``(2) Any senior management official, senior officer, or 
     director of the contractor who does not have such a security 
     clearance will not have access to any classified information, 
     including with respect to such facility.
       ``(3) The contractor has certified to the Secretary that 
     the senior officer, director, or employee appointed under 
     paragraph (1) has the authority to act on behalf of the 
     contractor with respect to such facility independent of any 
     senior management official, senior officer, or director 
     described in paragraph (2).
       ``(4) The facility meets all of the requirements to be 
     granted a security clearance other than any requirement 
     relating to the senior management official of the contractor 
     having an appropriate security clearance.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``2410s. Security clearances for facilities of certain contractors''.

     SEC. 1632. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN 
                   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.

       Section 431(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 
     31, 2023''.

     SEC. 1633. SUBMISSION OF AUDITS OF COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY FUNDS.

       Section 432(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``promptly''; and
       (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``by not later than December 31 of each year''.

     SEC. 1634. CLARIFICATION OF ANNUAL BRIEFING ON THE 
                   INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE 
                   REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.

       Section 1626 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3635) is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(including with respect to space-based 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance)'' after 
     ``intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     requirements'' both places it appears; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``critical intelligence, 
     surveillance and reconnaissance requirements'' and inserting 
     ``critical intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     requirements (including with respect to space-based 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance)''.

     SEC. 1635. REVIEW OF SUPPORT PROVIDED BY DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE 
                   ELEMENTS TO ACQUISITION ACTIVITIES OF THE 
                   DEPARTMENT.

       (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
     support provided by Defense intelligence elements to the 
     acquisition activities conducted by the Secretary, with a 
     specific focus on such support--
       (1) consisting of planning, prioritizing, and resourcing 
     relating to developmental weapon systems; and

[[Page H5609]]

       (2) for existing weapon systems throughout the program 
     lifecycle of such systems.
       (b) Budget Structure.--The Secretary shall develop a 
     specific budget structure for a sustainable funding profile 
     to ensure the support provided by Defense intelligence 
     elements described in subsection (a). The Secretary shall 
     implement such structure beginning with the defense budget 
     materials for fiscal year 2020.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than May 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall provide to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a briefing on the results of the review under 
     subsection (a) and a plan to carry out subsection (b).
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``defense budget materials'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 231(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (3) The term ``Defense intelligence element'' means any of 
     the agencies, offices, and elements of the Department of 
     Defense included within the definition of ``intelligence 
     community'' under section 3(4) of the National Security Act 
     of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

     SEC. 1636. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN 
                   OFFENSIVE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Limitation on Offensive Counterintelligence 
     Activities.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds described in paragraph (2), 
     not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until--
       (A) the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees the report under subsection (b);
       (B) the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency submits 
     to such committees the report under subsection (c); and
       (C) the Director and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Intelligence jointly provide to such committees the briefing 
     under subsection (d).
       (2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph 
     are the following:
       (A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 under the 
     General Defense Intelligence Program for any operations and 
     maintenance account for offensive counterintelligence 
     activities.
       (B) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 under the 
     Military Intelligence Program for any operations and 
     maintenance account for offensive counterintelligence 
     activities.
       (b) Report on Oversight Processes.--Not later than March 1, 
     2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report certifying that 
     each Defense intelligence element with offensive 
     counterintelligence authorities has the appropriate oversight 
     processes necessary to ensure compliance with the regulations 
     of the Department of Defense.
       (c) Report on Certain Resources.--Not later than March 1, 
     2018, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that includes an accounting of the counterintelligence 
     enterprise management resources transferred from the 
     Counterintelligence Field Activity to the Defense 
     Intelligence Agency that identifies such resources that are 
     no longer dedicated to counterintelligence activities, as of 
     the date of the report.
       (d) Briefing on Functional Management.--Not later than 
     March 1, 2018, the Director and the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Intelligence shall jointly provide to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a briefing on how the 
     Director and the Under Secretary plan to improve the 
     functional management of offensive counterintelligence 
     activities.
       (e) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``Defense intelligence element'' means any of 
     the Department of Defense agencies, offices, and elements 
     included within the definition of ``intelligence community'' 
     under section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
     U.S.C. 3003(4)).

     SEC. 1637. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN 
                   RELOCATION ACTIVITIES FOR NATO INTELLIGENCE 
                   FUSION CENTER.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     operation and maintenance may be obligated or expended for 
     the procurement of fit-out supplies and equipment to support 
     the relocation of the NATO Intelligence Fusion Center from 
     Royal Air Force Molesworth, United Kingdom, to Royal Air 
     Force Croughton, United Kingdom.

     SEC. 1638. ESTABLISHMENT OF CHAIRMAN'S CONTROLLED ACTIVITY 
                   WITHIN JOINT STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE, 
                   SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE.

       (a) Chairman's Controlled Activity.--The Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff shall--
       (1) undertake the roles, missions, and responsibilities of, 
     and an equal or greater number of personnel billets than the 
     amount of such billets previously prescribed for the Joint 
     Functional Component Command for Intelligence, Surveillance, 
     and Reconnaissance of United States Strategic Command; and
       (2) not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, establish an organization within the Joint 
     Staff--
       (A) that is designated as a chairman's controlled activity;
       (B) for which the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
     shall serve as the joint functional manager; and
       (C) which shall synchronize cross-combatant command 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance plans and 
     develop strategies integrating all joint service-provided and 
     allied intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
     capabilities to satisfy combatant command intelligence needs 
     for the Department of Defense.
       (b) Executive Agent.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     designate the Secretary of the Air Force as the executive 
     agent and sponsor for funding for the organization 
     established under subsection (a)(2).

     SEC. 1639. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON GEOSPATIAL 
                   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR BASIC AND APPLIED 
                   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) rapid technology change and a significant increase in 
     data collection by the intelligence community has outpaced 
     the ability of the intelligence community to exploit vast 
     quantities of intelligence data;
       (2) the data collection capabilities of the intelligence 
     community and the Department of Defense have outpaced to 
     exploit vast quantities of data;
       (3) furthermore, international competitors may be catching 
     up, and in some cases leading, in key technology areas;
       (4) many U.S. companies have talent and technological 
     capability that the Federal Government could harness; and
       (5) these companies would be able to more effectively 
     develop automation, artificial intelligence, and associated 
     algorithms if given access to data of the National 
     Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, consistent with the 
     protection of sources and methods.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the National 
     Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
     authorities necessary to conduct commercial activities 
     relating to geospatial intelligence that the Director 
     determines necessary to engage in basic research, applied 
     research, data transfers, and development projects, with 
     respect to automation, artificial intelligence, and 
     associated algorithms, including how the Director would use 
     such authorities, consistent with applicable laws and 
     procedures relating to the protection of sources and methods.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate; and
       (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1640. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
                   POLYGRAPH PROGRAM.

       Section 1564a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Any person who is a United States national who also 
     has the nationality of a foreign state.''.

     SEC. 1641. SECURITY CLEARANCE FOR DUAL-NATIONALS.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 80 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1564a the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 1564b. Security clearance for dual nationals

       ``(a) In General.--In the case of an individual who is a 
     United States national who also has the nationality of a 
     foreign state who is appointed to or hired for a position 
     designated by the Office of Personnel Management as critical 
     sensitive or special sensitive, the Secretary shall provide 
     additional review before approving a security clearance for 
     such individual.
       ``(b) Waiver.--
       ``(1) Waiver authority.--In the case of a person who is a 
     United States national who also has the nationality of a 
     foreign state identified under paragraph (2), the Secretary 
     may waive the requirement under subsection (a).
       ``(2) Foreign states.--The Director of National 
     Intelligence shall identify foreign states that permit 
     citizens or nationals of the United States to serve in 
     positions of trust equivalent to positions identified by the 
     Office of Personnel Management as critical sensitive or 
     special sensitive.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 1564a the following new item:

``1564b. Security clearance for dual nationals of high threat foreign 
              states.''.

     SEC. 1642. SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF SECURITY CLEARANCES 
                   BASED ON UNLAWFUL OR INAPPROPRIATE CONTACTS 
                   WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.

       The Secretary of Defense may suspend or revoke any security 
     clearance granted by the Department of Defense if the holder 
     of that security clearance has engaged in unlawful or 
     inappropriate contacts with representatives of the government 
     of a foreign country.

                 Subtitle D--Cyberspace-Related Matters

     SEC. 1651. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SENSITIVE MILITARY 
                   CYBER OPERATIONS AND CYBER WEAPONS.

       (a) Notification.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     sections:

     ``Sec. 130j. Notification requirements for sensitive military 
       cyber operations

       ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (d), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall

[[Page H5610]]

     promptly submit to the congressional defense committees 
     notice in writing of any sensitive military cyber operation 
     conducted under this title no later than 48 hours following 
     such operation.
       ``(b) Procedures.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish and submit to the congressional defense committees 
     procedures for complying with the requirements of subsection 
     (a) consistent with the national security of the United 
     States and the protection of operational integrity. The 
     Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of any changes to such procedures at 
     least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes.
       ``(2) The congressional defense committees shall ensure 
     that committee procedures designed to protect from 
     unauthorized disclosure classified information relating to 
     national security of the United States are sufficient to 
     protect the information that is submitted to the committees 
     pursuant to this section.
       ``(3) In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of a 
     sensitive military cyber operation covered by this section, 
     the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
     practicable, that the congressional defense committees are 
     notified immediately of the sensitive military cyber 
     operation concerned. The notification under this paragraph 
     may be verbal or written, but in the event of a verbal 
     notification a written notification shall be provided by not 
     later than 48 hours after the provision of the verbal 
     notification.
       ``(c) Sensitive Military Cyber Operation Defined.--(1) In 
     this section, the term `sensitive military cyber operation' 
     means an action described in paragraph (2) that--
       ``(A) is carried out by the armed forces or by a foreign 
     partner in coordination with the armed forces; and
       ``(B) is intended to cause effects outside a geographic 
     location where United States armed forces are involved in 
     hostilities (as that term is used in section 1543 of title 
     50, United States Code).
       ``(2) The actions described in this paragraph are the 
     following:
       ``(A) An offensive cyber operation.
       ``(B) A defensive cyber operation outside the Department of 
     Defense Information Networks to defeat an ongoing or imminent 
     threat.
       ``(d) Exceptions.--The notification requirement under 
     subsection (a) does not apply--
       ``(1) to a training exercise conducted with the consent of 
     all nations where the intended effects of the exercise will 
     occur; or
       ``(2) to a covert action (as that term is defined in 
     section 3093 of title 50, United States Code).
       ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to provide any new authority or to alter or 
     otherwise affect the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
     seq.), the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
     Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note), or any requirement under 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).

     ``Sec. 130k. Notification requirements for cyber weapons

       ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), 
     the Secretary of Defense shall promptly submit to the 
     congressional defense committees notice in writing of the 
     following:
       ``(1) With respect to a cyber capability that is intended 
     for use as a weapon, the results of any review of the 
     capability for legality under international law pursuant to 
     Department of Defense Directive 5000.01 no later than 48 
     hours after any military department concerned has completed 
     such review.
       ``(2) The use as a weapon of any cyber capability that has 
     been approved for such use under international law by a 
     military department no later than 48 hours following such 
     use.
       ``(b) Procedures.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish and submit to the congressional defense committees 
     procedures for complying with the requirements of subsection 
     (a) consistent with the national security of the United 
     States and the protection of operational integrity. The 
     Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense 
     committees in writing of any changes to such procedures at 
     least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes.
       ``(2) The congressional defense committees shall ensure 
     that committee procedures designed to protect from 
     unauthorized disclosure classified information relating to 
     national security of the United States are sufficient to 
     protect the information that is submitted to the committees 
     pursuant to this section.
       ``(3) In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of a cyber 
     capability covered by this section, the Secretary shall 
     ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
     congressional defense committees are notified immediately of 
     the cyber capability concerned. The notification under this 
     paragraph may be verbal or written, but in the event of a 
     verbal notification a written notification shall be provided 
     by not later than 48 hours after the provision of the verbal 
     notification.
       ``(c) Exceptions.--The notification requirement under 
     subsection (a) does not apply--
       ``(1) to a training exercise conducted with the consent of 
     all nations where the intended effects of the exercise will 
     occur; or
       ``(2) to a covert action (as that term is defined in 
     section 3093 of title 50, United States Code).
       ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to provide any new authority or to alter or 
     otherwise affect the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et 
     seq.), the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
     Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note), or any requirement under 
     the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et 
     seq.).''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new items:

``130j. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
              operations.
``130k. Notification requirements for cyber weapons.''.

     SEC. 1652. MODIFICATION TO QUARTERLY CYBER OPERATIONS 
                   BRIEFINGS.

       (a) In General.--Section 484 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
     the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) Briefings Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the congressional defense committees''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall 
     include, with respect to the military operations in 
     cyberspace described in such subsection, the following:
       ``(1) An update, set forth separately for each geographic 
     and functional command, that describes the operations carried 
     out by the command and any hostile cyber activity directed at 
     the command.
       ``(2) An overview of authorities and legal issues 
     applicable to the operations, including any relevant legal 
     limitations.
       ``(3) An outline of any interagency activities and 
     initiatives relating to the operations.
       ``(4) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
     appropriate.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and shall apply with respect to briefings required be 
     provided under section 484 of title 10, United States Code, 
     on or after that date.

     SEC. 1653. CYBER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

       (a) Name of Program.--Section 2200 of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Name of Program.--The programs authorized under this 
     chapter shall be known as the `Cyber Scholarship Program'.''.
       (b) Modification to Allocation of Funding for Cyber 
     Scholarship Program.--Section 2200a(f) of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Not less''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Not less than five percent of the amount available 
     for financial assistance under this section for a fiscal year 
     shall be available for providing financial assistance for the 
     pursuit of an associate degree at an institution described in 
     paragraph (1).''.
       (c) Cyber Definition.--Section 2200e of title 10, Unites 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 2200e. Definitions

       ``In this chapter:
       ``(1) The term `cyber' includes the following:
       ``(A) Offensive cyber operations.
       ``(B) Defensive cyber operations.
       ``(C) Department of Defense information network operations 
     and defense.
       ``(D) Any other information technology that the Secretary 
     of Defense considers to be related to the cyber activities of 
     the Department of Defense.
       ``(2) The term `institution of higher education' has the 
     meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
       ``(3) The term `Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber 
     Education' means an institution of higher education that is 
     designated by the Director of the National Security Agency as 
     a Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education.''.
       (d) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) Chapter 112 of title 10, United States Code, is further 
     amended--
       (A) in the chapter heading, by striking ``INFORMATION 
     SECURITY'' and inserting ``CYBER'';
       (B) in section 2200 (as amended by subsection (a))--
       (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``Department of Defense 
     information assurance requirements'' and inserting ``the 
     cyber requirements of the Department of Defense''; and
       (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines'';
       (C) in section 2200a (as amended by subsection (b))--
       (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``an information 
     assurance discipline'' and inserting ``a cyber discipline'';
       (ii) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines''; and
       (iii) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``an information 
     technology position'' and inserting ``a cyber position'';
       (D) in section 2200b, by striking ``information assurance 
     disciplines'' and inserting ``cyber disciplines''; and
       (E) in section 2200c, by striking ``Information Assurance'' 
     each place it appears and inserting ``Cyber''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 112 
     of title 10, Unites States Code, is amended by striking the 
     item relating to section 2200c and inserting the following:

``2200c. Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education.''.
       (3) Section 7045 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``Information Security Scholarship 
     program'' each place it appears and inserting ``Cyber 
     Scholarship program''; and
       (B) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by striking ``information 
     assurance'' and inserting ``a cyber discipline''.
       (4) Section 7904(4) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``Information Assurance'' and inserting 
     ``Cyber''.
       (e) Redesignations.--

[[Page H5611]]

       (1) Scholarship program.--The Information Security 
     Scholarship program under chapter 112 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is redesignated as the ``Cyber Scholarship 
     program''. Any reference in a law (other than this section), 
     map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the 
     United States to the Information Security Scholarship program 
     shall be deemed to be a reference to the Cyber Scholarship 
     Program.
       (2) Centers of academic excellence.--Any institution of 
     higher education designated by the Director of the National 
     Security Agency as a Center of Academic Excellence in 
     Information Assurance Education is redesignated as a Center 
     of Academic Excellence in Cyber Education. Any reference in a 
     law (other than this section), map, regulation, document, 
     paper, or other record of the United States to a Center of 
     Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education shall 
     be deemed to be a reference to a Center of Academic 
     Excellence in Cyber Education.
       (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated to the Secretary of Defense to provide 
     financial assistance under section 2200a of title 10, United 
     States Code (as amended by this section), and grants under 
     section 2200b of such title (as so amended), $10,000,000 for 
     fiscal year 2018.

     SEC. 1654. PLAN TO INCREASE CYBER AND INFORMATION OPERATIONS, 
                   DETERRENCE, AND DEFENSE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds following:
       (1) Cyber threats originating from the Asia-Pacific region 
     targeting the United States and the allies of the United 
     States have grown through the use of cyber intrusions, 
     exfiltration, and espionage by China and North Korea.
       (2) In February 2016, Admiral Harry Harris Jr., Commander 
     of the United States Pacific Command, in his testimony noted 
     ``increased cyber capacity and nefarious activity, especially 
     by China, North Korea, and Russia underscore the growing 
     requirement to evolve command, control, and operational 
     authorities''.
       (3) Admiral Harris stated ``that in order to fully leverage 
     the cyber domain, PACOM requires an enduring theater cyber 
     capability able to provide cyber planning, integration, 
     synchronization, and direction of cyber forces.''.
       (b) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
     to--
       (1) increase inclusion of regional cyber planning within 
     larger United States joint planning exercises in the Indo-
     Asia-Pacific region;
       (2) enhance joint, regional, and combined information 
     operations and strategic communication strategies to counter 
     Chinese and North Korean information warfare, malign 
     influence, and propaganda activities; and
       (3) identify potential areas of cybersecurity collaboration 
     and partnership capabilities with Asian allies and partners 
     of the United States.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
     the plan required under subsection (b).

     SEC. 1655. REPORT ON TERMINATION OF DUAL-HAT ARRANGEMENT FOR 
                   COMMANDER OF THE UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.

       (a) Report.--Not later than December 1, 2017, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on the progress of the Department of 
     Defense in meeting the requirements of section 1642 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2601).
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include, with respect to any decision to terminate the dual-
     hat arrangement as described in section 1642 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2601), the following:
       (1) Metrics and milestones for meeting the conditions 
     described in subsection (b)(2)(C) of such section 1642.
       (2) Identification of any challenges to meeting such 
     conditions.
       (3) Identification of entities or persons requiring 
     additional resources as a result of any decision to terminate 
     the dual-hat arrangement.
       (4) Identification of any updates to statutory authorities 
     needed as a result of any decision to terminate the dual-hat 
     arrangement.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees;
       (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
       (3) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives.

                       Subtitle E--Nuclear Forces

     SEC. 1661. NOTIFICATIONS REGARDING DUAL-CAPABLE F-35A 
                   AIRCRAFT.

       Section 179(f) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
     paragraph (6):
       ``(6) If a House of Congress adopts a bill authorizing or 
     appropriating funds for the Department of Defense that, as 
     determined by the Council, provides funds in an amount that 
     will result in a delay in the nuclear certification or 
     delivery of F-35A dual-capable aircraft, the Council shall 
     notify the congressional defense committees of the 
     determination.''.

     SEC. 1662. OVERSIGHT OF DELAYED ACQUISITION PROGRAMS BY 
                   COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
                   COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

       (a) Status Updates.--Section 171a of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (l); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (j) the following new 
     subsection (k):
       ``(k) Status of Acquisition Programs.--(1) On a quarterly 
     basis, each program manager of a covered acquisition program 
     shall transmit to the co-chairs of the Council, acting 
     through the senior steering group of the Council, a report 
     that identifies--
       ``(A) the covered acquisition program;
       ``(B) the requirements of the program;
       ``(C) the development timeline of the program; and
       ``(D) the status of the program, including whether the 
     program is delayed and, if so, whether such delay will result 
     in a program schedule delay.
       ``(2) Not later than seven days after the end of each 
     quarter, the co-chairs of the Council shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report that identifies, 
     with respect to the reports transmitted to the Council under 
     paragraph (1) for that quarter--
       ``(A) each covered acquisition program that is delayed more 
     than 180 days; and
       ``(B) any covered acquisition program that should have been 
     included in such reports but was excluded, and the reasons 
     for such exclusion.
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered acquisition 
     program' means each acquisition program of the Department of 
     Defense that materially contributes to--
       ``(A) the nuclear command, control, and communications 
     systems of the United States; or
       ``(B) the continuity of government systems of the United 
     States.''.
       (b) Instructions.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue a 
     Department of Defense Instruction, or revise such an 
     Instruction, to ensure that program managers carry out 
     subsection (k)(1) of section 171a of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a).

     SEC. 1663. ESTABLISHMENT OF NUCLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL 
                   INTELLIGENCE FUSION CENTER.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly establish 
     an intelligence fusion center to enhance the protection of 
     nuclear command, control, and communications programs, 
     systems, and processes and continuity of government programs, 
     systems, and processes.
       (b) Charter.--In establishing the fusion center under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director shall develop 
     a charter for the fusion center that includes the following:
       (1) To carry out the duties of the fusion center, a 
     description of--
       (A) the roles and responsibilities of officials and 
     elements of the Federal Government, including a detailed 
     description of the organizational relationships of such 
     officials and the elements of the Federal Government that are 
     key stakeholders;
       (B) the organization reporting chain of the fusion center;
       (C) the staffing of the fusion center;
       (D) the processes of the fusion center; and
       (E) how the fusion center integrates with other elements of 
     the Federal Government;
       (2) The management and administration processes required to 
     carry out the fusion center, including with respect to 
     facilities and security authorities.
       (3) Procedures to ensure that the appropriate number of 
     staff of the fusion center have the security clearance 
     necessary to access information on the programs, systems, and 
     processes that relate, either wholly or substantially, to 
     nuclear command, control, and communications or continuity of 
     government, including with respect to both the programs, 
     systems, and processes that are designated as special access 
     programs (as described in section 4.3 of Executive Order 
     13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note) or any successor Executive order) 
     and the programs, systems, and processes that contain 
     sensitive compartmented information.
       (c) Coordination.--In establishing the fusion center under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director shall 
     coordinate with the elements of the Federal Government that 
     the Secretary and Director determine appropriate.
       (d) Reports.--
       (1) Initial report.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Director 
     shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report containing--
       (A) the charter for the fusion center developed under 
     subsection (b); and
       (B) a plan on the budget and staffing of the fusion center.
       (2) Annual reports.--At the same time as the President 
     submits to Congress the annual budget request under section 
     1105 of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2019 
     and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary and the 
     Director shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a report on the fusion center, including, with 
     respect to the period covered by the report--
       (A) any updates to the plan on the budget and staffing of 
     the fusion center;
       (B) any updates to the charter developed under subsection 
     (b); and
       (C) a summary of the activities and accomplishments of the 
     fusion center.
       (3) Sunset.--No report is required under this subsection 
     after December 31, 2021.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.

     SEC. 1664. SECURITY OF NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM FROM COMMERCIAL 
                   DEPENDENCIES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) At a hearing before the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives

[[Page H5612]]

     on September 30, 2015, Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert 
     Work, responding to a question about the use of Huawei 
     telecommunications equipment, stated, ``In the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense, absolutely not. And I know of no 
     other--I don't believe we operate in the Pentagon, any 
     [Huawei] systems in the Pentagon.''.
       (2) At such hearing, the Commander of the United States 
     Cyber Command, Admiral Mike Rogers, responding to a question 
     about why such Huawei telecommunications equipment is not 
     used, stated, ``as we look at supply chain and we look at 
     potential vulnerabilities within the system, that it is a 
     risk we felt was unacceptable.''.
       (3) At a hearing before the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representatives on June 22, 2016, Acting 
     Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and 
     Global Security Thomas Atkin, stated, ``There are currently 
     no Huawei or ZTE products on the DoD Unified Capabilities 
     Approved Products List (APL).''.
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     certify to the congressional defense committees whether the 
     Secretary uses covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services as a substantial or essential component of any 
     system, or as critical technology as part of any system, to 
     carry out--
       (1) the nuclear deterrence mission of the Department of 
     Defense, including with respect to nuclear command, control, 
     and communications, integrated tactical warning and attack 
     assessment, and continuity of government; or
       (2) the homeland defense mission of the Department, 
     including with respect to ballistic missile defense.
       (c) Prohibition and Mitigation.--
       (1) Prohibition.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), 
     beginning on the date that is one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may not 
     procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract to procure 
     or obtain, any equipment, system, or service to carry out the 
     missions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
     (b) that uses covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services as a substantial or essential component of any 
     system, or as critical technology as part of any system.
       (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition in 
     paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis for a single one-year 
     period if the Secretary--
       (A) determines such waiver to be in the national security 
     interests of the United States; and
       (B) certifies to the congressional committees that--
       (i) there are sufficient mitigations in place to guarantee 
     the ability of the Secretary to carry out the missions 
     described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b); and
       (ii) the Secretary is removing the use of covered 
     telecommunications equipment or services in carrying out such 
     missions.
       (3) Delegation.--The Secretary may not delegate the 
     authority to make a waiver under paragraph (2) to any 
     official other than the Deputy Secretary of Defense or the 
     co-chairs of the Council on Oversight of the National 
     Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System 
     established by section 171a of title 10, United States Code.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (2) The term ``covered foreign country'' means any of the 
     following:
       (A) The People's Republic of China.
       (B) The Russian Federation.
       (3) The term ``covered telecommunications equipment or 
     services'' means any of the following:
       (A) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei 
     Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any subsidiary or 
     affiliate of such entities).
       (B) Telecommunications services provided by such entities 
     or using such equipment.
       (C) Telecommunications equipment or services produced or 
     provided by an entity that the Secretary of Defense 
     reasonably believes to be an entity owned or controlled by, 
     or otherwise connected to, the government of a covered 
     foreign country.

     SECTION 1665. OVERSIGHT OF AERIAL-LAYER PROGRAMS BY COUNCIL 
                   ON OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
                   COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

       Any analysis of alternatives for the Senior Leader Airborne 
     Operations Center, the executive airlift program of the Air 
     Force, and the E-6B modernization program may not receive 
     final approval by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, 
     and the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
     may not conduct any sufficiency review of such an analysis of 
     alternatives, unless--
       (1) the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership 
     Command, Control, and Communications System established by 
     section 171a of title 10, United States Code, determines that 
     the alternatives for such programs are capable of meeting the 
     requirements for senior leadership communications in support 
     of the nuclear command, control, and communications mission 
     of the Department of Defense and the continuity of government 
     mission of the Department;
       (2) the Council submits to the congressional defense 
     committees such determination; and
       (3) a period of 30 days elapses following the date of such 
     submission.

     SEC. 1666. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GUIDE FOR PROGRAMS 
                   RELATING TO NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.

       (a) Requirement for Security Classification Guide.--Not 
     later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of Defense shall require the issuance of a 
     security classification guide for each covered program to 
     ensure the protection of sensitive information from public 
     disclosure.
       (b) Requirements.--Each security classification guide 
     issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (1) approved by--
       (A) the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership 
     Command, Control, and Communications System with respect to 
     covered programs under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection 
     (c); or
       (B) the Nuclear Weapons Council with respect to covered 
     programs under paragraph (3) of such subsection; and
       (2) issued not later than March 19, 2019, with respect to a 
     covered program in existence as of such date.
       (c) Covered Program Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered program'' means programs of the Department of 
     Defense in existence on or after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act relating to any of the following:
       (1) Continuity of government.
       (2) Nuclear command, control, and communications.
       (3) Nuclear deterrence.

     SEC. 1667. EVALUATION AND ENHANCED SECURITY OF SUPPLY CHAIN 
                   FOR NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Evaluations of Supply Chain Vulnerabilities.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, and in 
     accordance with the plan under paragraph (2)(A), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall conduct evaluations of the supply 
     chain vulnerabilities of each covered program.
       (2) Plan.--
       (A) Development.--The Secretary shall develop a plan to 
     carry out the evaluations under paragraph (1).
       (B) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the plan under subparagraph 
     (A).
       (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive, on a case-by-case 
     basis with respect to a weapons system, a program, or a 
     system of systems, of a covered program, either the 
     requirement to conduct an evaluation under paragraph (1) or 
     the deadline specified in such paragraph if the Secretary 
     certifies to the congressional defense committees before such 
     date that all known supply chain vulnerabilities of such 
     weapons system, program, or system of systems have minimal 
     consequences for the capability of such weapons system, 
     program, or system of systems to meet operational 
     requirements or otherwise satisfy mission requirements.
       (4) Risk mitigation strategies.--In carrying out an 
     evaluation under paragraph (1) with respect to a covered 
     program specified in subparagraph (B) or (C) of subsection 
     (c)(2), the Secretary shall develop strategies for mitigating 
     the risks of supply chain vulnerabilities identified in the 
     course of such evaluation.
       (b) Prioritization of Certain Supply Chain Risk Management 
     Efforts.--
       (1) Instructions.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a 
     Department of Defense Instruction, or update such an 
     Instruction, establishing the prioritization of supply chain 
     risk management programs, including supply chain risk 
     management threat assessment reporting, to ensure that 
     acquisition and sustainment programs relating to covered 
     programs receive the highest priority of such supply chain 
     risk management programs and reporting.
       (2) Requirements.--
       (A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
     requirements to carry out supply chain risk management threat 
     assessment collections and analyses under acquisition and 
     sustainment programs relating to covered programs.
       (B) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the requirements 
     established under subparagraph (A).
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) The term ``covered programs'' means programs relating 
     to any of the following:
       (A) Nuclear weapons.
       (B) Nuclear command, control, and communications.
       (C) Continuity of government.
       (D) Ballistic missile defense.

     SEC. 1668. LIMITATION ON PURSUIT OF CERTAIN COMMAND AND 
                   CONTROL CONCEPT.

       (a) Limitation on Command and Control Concept.--The 
     Secretary of the Air Force may not award a contract for 
     engineering and manufacturing development for the ground-
     based strategic deterrent program that would result in a 
     command and control concept for such program that consists of 
     less than 15 fixed launch control centers per missile wing 
     unless the Commander of the United States Strategic Command--
       (1) determines that--
       (A) the plans of the Secretary for a command and control 
     concept consisting of less than 15 fixed launch control 
     centers per missile wing are appropriate, meet requirements, 
     and do not contain excessive risk;
       (B) the risks to schedules and costs from such concept are 
     minimized and manageable;
       (C) the strategy and plan of the Secretary for addressing 
     cyber threats for such concept are robust; and
       (D) with respect to such concept, the Secretary has 
     established an appropriate process

[[Page H5613]]

     for considering and managing trade-offs among requirements 
     relating to survivability, long-term operations and 
     sustainment costs, procurement costs, and military personnel 
     needs; and
       (2) submits, in writing, to the Secretary and the 
     congressional defense committees such determination.
       (b) Inability to Make Determination.--If the Secretary 
     proposes to award a contract specified in subsection (a) and 
     the Commander is unable to make the determination under such 
     subsection, the Commander shall submit, in writing, to the 
     Secretary and the congressional defense committees the 
     reasons for not making such determination.
       (c) No Effect on Competition.--Nothing in subsection (a) or 
     (b) shall be construed to affect or prohibit the ability of 
     the Secretary to use fair and open competition procedures in 
     soliciting, evaluating, and awarding contracts for the 
     ground-based strategic deterrent program.

     SEC. 1669. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF 
                   INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.

       (a) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) 
     of title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to 
     be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 by section 101 and 
     available for Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in 
     the funding table in division D, $6,334,000 shall be 
     available for the procurement of covered parts pursuant to 
     contracts entered into under section 1645(a) of the Carl 
     Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3651).
       (b) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``covered parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf 
     items as defined in section 104 of title 41, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 1670. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF INDEPENDENT 
                   NUCLEAR DETERRENT OF UNITED KINGDOM.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) nuclear deterrence is foundational to the defense and 
     security of the United States and the security of the United 
     States is enhanced by a nuclear-armed ally with common values 
     and security priorities;
       (2) the United States sees the nuclear deterrent of the 
     United Kingdom as central to transatlantic security and 
     welcomes the commitment of the United Kingdom to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to continue to spend two 
     percent of gross domestic product on defense;
       (3) in the face of increasing threats, the presence of 
     credible nuclear deterrent forces of the United Kingdom is 
     essential to international stability and for NATO;
       (4) the commitment of the United Kingdom to sustaining an 
     independent nuclear deterrent, deployed continuously at sea, 
     provides a vital second decision-making point within the 
     deterrent capability of NATO, creating essential uncertainty 
     in the mind of any potential adversary;
       (5) the United States Navy must continue to execute the 
     Columbia-class submarine program on time and within budget to 
     ensure that the sea-based leg of the nuclear triad of the 
     United States is sustained and the program delivers a Common 
     Missile Compartment, the Trident II (D5) Strategic Weapon 
     System, and associated equipment and production capabilities, 
     to support the successful development and deployment of the 
     Dreadnought submarines of the United Kingdom;
       (6) the support that the United Kingdom provides to 
     deployments of strategic ships and aircraft of the United 
     States at specialized facilities enables a vital part of the 
     deterrence posture of the United States as well as mutual 
     deterrence of adversaries and assurance to the allies and 
     partners of the United States; and
       (7) the collaboration of the United Kingdom with the United 
     States on the military use of atomic energy ensures a peer in 
     the technology and science of nuclear weapons and provides 
     independent expert peer review of the nuclear programs of the 
     United States, ensuring resilience, and cost effectiveness to 
     the nuclear defense programs of both nations.

     SEC. 1671. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MOBILE 
                   VARIANT OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT 
                   MISSILE.

       (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any 
     of fiscal years 2017 through 2019 may be obligated or 
     expended to retain the option for, or develop, a mobile 
     variant of the ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
       (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1664 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328; 130 Stat. 2615) is repealed.

     SEC. 1672. REPORT ON IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) nuclear proliferation continues to be a serious threat 
     to the security of the United States;
       (2) it is critical for the United States to understand the 
     impacts of nuclear proliferation and ensure the necessary 
     policies and resources are in place to prevent the 
     proliferation of nuclear materials and weapons;
       (3) effectively addressing the danger of states and non-
     state actors acquiring nuclear weapons or nuclear-weapons-
     usable material should be a clear priority for United States 
     national security; and
       (4) Secretary of Defense James Mattis testified before 
     Congress on June 12, 2017, that ``nuclear nonproliferation 
     has not received enough attention over quite a few years''.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report containing--
       (1) a description of the impacts of nuclear proliferation 
     on the security of the United States;
       (2) a description of how the Department of Defense is 
     contributing to the current strategy to respond to the threat 
     of nuclear proliferation, and what resources are being 
     applied to this effort, including whether there are any 
     funding gaps; and
       (3) if and how nuclear proliferation is being addressed in 
     the Nuclear Posture Review and other pertinent strategy 
     reviews.

                  Subtitle F--Missile Defense Programs

     SEC. 1681. ADMINISTRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE AND DEFEAT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       (a) Major Force Program.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 239a. Missile defense and defeat programs: major force 
       program and budget assessment

       ``(a) Establishment of Major Force Program.--The Secretary 
     of Defense shall establish a unified major force program for 
     missile defense and defeat programs pursuant to section 
     222(b) of this title to prioritize missile defense and defeat 
     programs in accordance with the requirements of the 
     Department of Defense and national security.
       ``(b) Budget Assessment.--(1) The Secretary shall include 
     with the defense budget materials for each of fiscal years 
     2019 through 2023 a report on the budget for missile defense 
     and defeat programs of the Department of Defense.
       ``(2) Each report on the budget for missile defense and 
     defeat programs of the Department under paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       ``(A) An overview of the budget, including--
       ``(i) a comparison between that budget, the previous 
     budget, the most recent and prior future-years defense 
     program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title 
     (such comparison shall exclude the responsibility for 
     research and development of the continuing improvement of 
     such missile defense and defeat program), and the amounts 
     appropriated for such missile defense and defeat programs 
     during the previous fiscal year; and
       ``(ii) the specific identification, as a budgetary line 
     item, for the funding under such programs.
       ``(B) An assessment of the budget, including significant 
     changes, priorities, challenges, and risks.
       ``(C) Any additional matters the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       ``(3) Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `budget', with respect to a fiscal year, 
     means the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to 
     Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.
       ``(2) The term `defense budget materials', with respect to 
     a fiscal year, means the materials submitted to Congress by 
     the Secretary of Defense in support of the budget for that 
     fiscal year.
       ``(3) The term `missile defense and defeat programs' means 
     active and passive ballistic missile defense programs, cruise 
     missile defense programs for the homeland, and missile defeat 
     programs.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 239 the following new item:

``239a. Missile defense and defeat programs: major force program and 
              budget assessment.''.
       (b) Transition of Ballistic Missile Defense Programs to 
     Military Departments.--
       (1) Requirement.--Not later than the date on which the 
     budget of the President for fiscal year 2020 is submitted 
     under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall transfer the acquisition authority 
     and the total obligational authority for each missile defense 
     program described in paragraph (2) from the Missile Defense 
     Agency to a military department.
       (2) Missile defense program described.--A missile defense 
     program described in this paragraph is a missile defense 
     program of the Missile Defense Agency that, as of the date 
     specified in paragraph (1), has received Milestone C approval 
     (as defined in section 2366 of title 10, United States Code).
       (3) Report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
     the plans of the Department of Defense for the transition of 
     missile defense programs from the Missile Defense Agency to 
     the military departments pursuant to paragraph (1).
       (B) Scope.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall cover 
     the period covered by the future-years defense program that 
     is submitted under section 221 of title 10, United States 
     Code, in the year in which such report is submitted.
       (C) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
     shall include the following:
       (i) An identification of--

       (I) the missile defense programs planned to be transitioned 
     from the Missile Defense Agency to the military departments; 
     and
       (II) the missile defense programs, if any, not planned for 
     transition to the military departments.

       (ii) The schedule for transition of each missile defense 
     program planned to be transitioned to a military department, 
     and an explanation of such schedule.
       (iii) A description of--

       (I) the status of the plans of the Missile Defense Agency 
     and the military departments for the transition of missile 
     defense programs from that agency to the military 
     departments; and
       (II) the status of any agreement between the Missile 
     Defense Agency and one or more of the

[[Page H5614]]

     military departments on the transition of any such program 
     from that agency to the military departments, including any 
     agreement on the operational test criteria that must be 
     achieved before such transition.

       (iv) An identification of the element of the Department of 
     Defense (whether the Missile Defense Agency, a military 
     department, or both) that will be responsible for funding 
     each missile defense program to be transitioned to a military 
     department, and at what date.
       (v) A description of the type of funds that will be used 
     (whether funds for research, development, test, and 
     evaluation, procurement, military construction, or operation 
     and maintenance) for each missile defense program to be 
     transitioned to a military department.
       (vi) An explanation of the number of systems planned for 
     procurement for each missile defense program to be 
     transitioned to a military department, and the schedule for 
     procurement of each such system.
       (vii) A description of how the Missile Defense Agency will 
     continue the responsibility for the research and development 
     of improvements to missile defense programs.
       (c) Role of Missile Defense Agency.--
       (1) In general.--Chapter 8 of title 10, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 205. Missile Defense Agency

       ``(a) Term of Director.--The Director of the Missile 
     Defense Agency shall be appointed for a six-year term.
       ``(b) Reporting.--The Missile Defense Agency shall be under 
     the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary 
     of Defense for Research and Engineering.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of subchapter II of such chapter is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``205. Missile Defense Agency.''.
       (3) Application.--
       (A) Terms.--Subsection (a) of section 205 of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply 
     the day following the date on which the present incumbent in 
     the office of the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, as 
     of the date of the enactment of this Act, ceases to serve as 
     such.
       (B) Reporting.--Subsection (b) of such section 205 shall 
     apply beginning on February 1, 2018. In carrying out such 
     subsection, the Missile Defense Agency shall be under the 
     authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Research and Engineering in the same manner as 
     the Missile Defense Agency was under the authority, 
     direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics pursuant to Department 
     of Defense Directive 5134.09. Any reference in such 
     Instruction to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
     Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
     and Engineering, including with respect to the Under 
     Secretary serving as the chairman of the Missile Defense 
     Executive Board.

     SEC. 1682. PRESERVATION OF THE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE 
                   CAPACITY OF THE ARMY.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 or any fiscal year thereafter for the Army 
     may be obligated or expended to demilitarize any GEM-T 
     interceptor or remove any such interceptor from the 
     operational inventory of the Army until the date on which the 
     Secretary of the Army submits to the congressional defense 
     committees the evaluation conducted under subsection (b).
       (b) Evaluation.--The Secretary and the Chief of Staff of 
     the Army shall jointly conduct an evaluation of the ability 
     of the Army to meet warfighter requirements and operational 
     needs if GEM-T interceptors are removed from the operational 
     inventory of the Army. In conducting such evaluation, the 
     Secretary and the Chief of Staff shall evaluate whether the 
     Army can maintain an inventory of interceptors necessary to 
     retain the capability provided by GEM-T interceptors and to 
     meet such operational needs by either--
       (1) recertifying GEM-T interceptors (either with or without 
     modification); or
       (2) developing, testing, and fielding a new low-cost 
     interceptor that can be placed on the operational inventory 
     of the Army prior to the retirement of GEM-T interceptors.
       (c) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to activities that the Secretary determines are 
     critical to the safety of GEM-T interceptors.
       (d) GEM-T Interceptor Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``GEM-T interceptor'' means the Patriot guidance enhanced 
     missile TBM.

     SEC. 1683. MODERNIZATION OF ARMY LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE 
                   DEFENSE SENSOR.

       (a) Approval of Acquisition Strategy.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 15, 2018, the 
     Secretary of the Army shall issue an acquisition strategy for 
     a 360-degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor that 
     achieves initial operating capability by not later than 
     January 1, 2022.
       (2) Requirements.--The acquisition strategy under paragraph 
     (1) shall--
       (A) ensure the use of competitive procedures;
       (B) clearly describe the open-architecture design to be 
     used;
       (C) provide a comprehensive fielding plan that provides 
     360-degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor 
     capability to all units of the Army by not later than January 
     1, 2026;
       (D) define the operation and sustainment cost savings of 
     the acquisition strategy and other acquisition options of the 
     Army;
       (E) identify any programmatic cost avoidance that could be 
     achieved through co-production, co-development, or foreign 
     military sales;
       (F) ensure the fielding of an interim gap-filler capability 
     to the highest priority forces (consisting of not less than 
     three battalions) for imminent threats; and
       (G) identify the estimated cost to field both the 360-
     degree lower tier air and missile defense sensor capability 
     and the interim capability pursuant to subparagraph (E).
       (3) Limitation.--If the Secretary of the Army does not 
     issue the acquisition strategy under subsection (a) by April 
     15, 2018, none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     the lower tier air and missile defense sensor of the Army 
     that are unobligated as of such date may be obligated or 
     expended.
       (b) Conditional Transfer.--
       (1) MDA.--If the Secretary of the Army does not issue the 
     acquisition strategy under subsection (a) by April 15, 2018, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall transfer from the Secretary of 
     the Army to the Director of the Missile Defense Agency--
       (A) the responsibility to issue the acquisition strategy 
     described in subsection (a) by not later than December 15, 
     2018; and
       (B) beginning on the date of such approval, the 
     responsibility to implement such acquisition strategy to 
     procure a 360-degree lower tier air and missile defense 
     sensor.
       (2) Army.--If the Secretary of Defense carries out the 
     transfer under paragraph (1), after the 360-degree lower tier 
     air and missile defense sensor achieves Milestone B approval 
     (or equivalent), but before such sensor achieves Milestone C 
     approval (or equivalent), the Secretary of Defense shall 
     transfer from the Director of the Missile Defense Agency to 
     the Secretary of the Army the responsibility to procure such 
     sensor.
       (c) Definitions.--The terms ``Milestone B approval'' and 
     ``Milestone C approval'' have the meanings given those terms 
     in section 2366 of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 1684. ENHANCEMENT OF OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION OF 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, the 
     Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, the Secretary of 
     the Army, and the Secretary of the Navy shall jointly ensure 
     that--
       (1) the test plans of the Integrated Master Test Plan of 
     the ballistic missile defense system include planned tests 
     activity of the lower tier ballistic missile defenses of the 
     Army;
       (2) such plans prioritize the integration of such defenses 
     with elements of the ballistic missile defense system; and
       (3) such plans are clearly described in such Integrated 
     Master Test Plan.

     SEC. 1685. DEFENSE OF HAWAII FROM NORTH KOREAN BALLISTIC 
                   MISSILE ATTACK.

       (a) Findings; Sense of Congress.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (A) The North Korean ballistic missile threat to the United 
     States, including Hawaii, is growing rapidly.
       (B) Since Kim Jong-un took power in 2012, North Korea has 
     conducted 78 ballistic missile tests, of which 61 are 
     considered to have been successful.
       (C) The existing ballistic missile defense protection for 
     Hawaii, including the ground-based midcourse defense system 
     in Alaska, and the sea-based x-band radar, provide limited 
     ballistic missile defense capabilities today.
       (D) Through use of existing ballistic missile defense 
     assets, including AN/TPY-2 radars and the Aegis Ashore Site 
     located on the Pacific Missile Range Facility, the ballistic 
     missile defense of Hawaii could benefit from a near-term 
     improvement by adding a layer of defense.
       (E) The proposed program of record for a medium range 
     discriminating radar to be fully mission capable after 2023 
     would leave the defense of Hawaii dependent only on the 
     ground-based midcourse defense system in Alaska, and the sea-
     based x-band radar until that time, while the threat to the 
     United States, including Hawaii, from North Korean ballistic 
     missiles continues to grow.
       (F) The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (Public Law 114-328) required that the Missile Defense 
     Agency plan to provide additional ballistic missile defense 
     sensor coverage for the defense of Hawaii and ``field such 
     radar or equivalent sensor by not later than December 31, 
     2021''.
       (G) When asked at a hearing of the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives on April 26, 2017, 
     about the threat to Hawaii from North Korean ballistic 
     missiles, the Commander of the United States Pacific Command, 
     Admiral Harry Harris, testified that ``Kim Jong-un is clearly 
     in a position to threaten Hawaii today. . .I believe that our 
     ballistic missile (defense) architecture is sufficient to 
     protect Hawaii today. But it can be overwhelmed'' and ``I 
     think that we would be better served, my personal opinion, is 
     that we would be better served with a defensive Hawaii radar 
     and interceptors in Hawaii. I know that is being discussed''.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     Congress supports assessing the feasibility of improving the 
     missile defense of Hawaii from the evolving ballistic missile 
     threat, including from North Korea, through a permanent 
     missile defense sensor capability and the possible 
     introduction of interim missile defense coverage.
       (b) Sequenced Approach.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     protect the test and training operations of the Pacific 
     Missile Range Facility, and assess the siting and 
     functionality of a discrimination radar for homeland defense 
     throughout the Hawaiian Islands before assessing the 
     feasibility of improving the missile defense of Hawaii by 
     using existing missile defense assets that could materially 
     improve the defense of Hawaii.

[[Page H5615]]

       (c) Test.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall--
       (1) not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, conduct a test to evaluate and demonstrate, if 
     technologically feasible, the capability to defeat a simple 
     intercontinental ballistic missile threat using the standard 
     missile 3 block IIA missile interceptor; and
       (2) as part of the integrated master test plan for the 
     ballistic missile defense system, develop a plan to 
     demonstrate a capability to defeat a complex intercontinental 
     ballistic missile threat, including a complex threat posed by 
     the intercontinental ballistic missiles of North Korea.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report--
       (1) that indicates whether demonstrating an 
     intercontinental ballistic missile defense capability against 
     North Korean ballistic missiles by the standard missile 3 
     block IIA missile interceptor poses any risks to strategic 
     stability; and
       (2) if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
     such demonstration poses such risks to strategic stability, a 
     description of any plan developed and implemented by the 
     Secretary to address and mitigate such risks, as determined 
     appropriate by the Secretary.

     SEC. 1686. AEGIS ASHORE ANTI-AIR WARFARE CAPABILITY.

       (a) Authorization.--Using funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by sections 101 and 201 of this Act or otherwise 
     made available for fiscal year 2018 for procurement and 
     research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in 
     the funding tables in division D, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall continue the development, procurement, and deployment 
     of anti-air warfare capabilities at each Aegis Ashore site in 
     Romania and Poland. The Secretary shall ensure the deployment 
     of such capabilities--
       (1) at such sites in Romania by not later than one year 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
       (2) at such sites in Poland by not later than one year 
     after the declaration of operational status for such sites.
       (b) Reprogramming and Transfers.--Any reprogramming or 
     transfer made to carry out subsection (a) shall be carried 
     out in accordance with established procedures for 
     reprogramming or transfers.

     SEC. 1687. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM, 
                   ISRAELI COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM 
                   CODEVELOPMENT AND COPRODUCTION, AND ARROW 3 
                   TESTING.

       (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
       (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available 
     for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $92,000,000 may 
     be provided to the Government of Israel to procure Tamir 
     interceptors for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense 
     system through coproduction of such interceptors in the 
     United States by industry of the United States.
       (2) Conditions.--
       (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) for the 
     Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be 
     available subject to the terms and conditions in the 
     Agreement Between the Department of Defense of the United 
     States of America and the Ministry of Defense of the State of 
     Israel Concerning Iron Dome Defense System Procurement, 
     signed on March 5, 2014, subject to an amended bilateral 
     international agreement for coproduction for Tamir 
     interceptors. In negotiations by the Missile Defense Agency 
     and the Missile Defense Organization of the Government of 
     Israel regarding such production, the goal of the United 
     States is to maximize opportunities for coproduction of the 
     Tamir interceptors described in paragraph (1) in the United 
     States by industry of the United States.
       (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the 
     initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the 
     Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under 
     Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees--
       (i) a certification that the amended bilateral 
     international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is 
     being implemented as provided in such agreement; and
       (ii) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
     implementation of such agreement.
       (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program 
     Codevelopment and Coproduction.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for 
     procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
     Defense Agency--
       (A) not more than $221,500,000 may be provided to the 
     Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
     System, including for coproduction of parts and components in 
     the United States by United States industry; and
       (B) not more than $287,300,000 may be provided to the 
     Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
     Program, including for coproduction of parts and components 
     in the United States by United States industry.
       (2) Certification.--
       (A) Criteria.--Except as provided by paragraph (3), the 
     Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
     Logistics shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a certification that--
       (i) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
     successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
     milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the 
     research, development, and technology agreements for the 
     David's Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
     Development Program, respectively;
       (ii) funds specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (1) will be provided on the basis of a one-for-one 
     cash match made by Israel for such respective systems or in 
     another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
     mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
       (iii) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
     international agreement with Israel that establishes, with 
     respect to the use of such funds--

       (I) in accordance with clause (iv), the terms of 
     coproduction of parts and components of such respective 
     systems on the basis of the greatest practicable coproduction 
     of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by 
     United States industry and minimizes nonrecurring engineering 
     and facilitization expenses to the costs needed for 
     coproduction;
       (II) complete transparency on the requirement of Israel for 
     the number of interceptors and batteries of such respective 
     systems that will be procured, including with respect to the 
     procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and funding profiles 
     of Israel;
       (III) technical milestones for coproduction of parts and 
     components and procurement of such respective systems; and
       (IV) joint approval processes for third-party sales of such 
     respective systems and the components of such respective 
     systems;

       (iv) the level of coproduction described in clause (iii)(I) 
     for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program and the 
     David's Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 percent; and
       (v) there is a separate, clear plan for each of the David's 
     Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
     Program for improving the affordability of the respective 
     system, and each such plan is approved by a United States-
     Israeli joint working group on cost-reduction for such 
     respective system.
       (B) Number.--In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Under 
     Secretary may submit--
       (i) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
     Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
     or
       (ii) separate certifications for each respective system.
       (C) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the certification under 
     subparagraph (A) by not later than 60 days before the funds 
     specified in paragraph (1) for the respective system covered 
     by the certification are provided to the Government of 
     Israel.
       (3) Waiver.--The Under Secretary may waive the 
     certification required by paragraph (2) if the Under 
     Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the Under Secretary has received sufficient 
     data from the Government of Israel to demonstrate--
       (A) the funds specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (1) are provided to Israel solely for funding the 
     procurement of long-lead components and critical hardware in 
     accordance with a production plan, including a funding 
     profile detailing Israeli contributions for production, 
     including long-lead production, of either David's Sling 
     Weapon System or the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
       (B) such long-lead components have successfully completed 
     knowledge points, technical milestones, and production 
     readiness reviews; and
       (C) the long-lead procurement will be conducted in a manner 
     that maximizes coproduction in the United States without 
     incurring nonrecurring engineering activity or cost other 
     than such activity or cost required for suppliers of the 
     United States to start or restart production in the United 
     States.
       (4) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
     which both plans described in paragraph (2)(A)(v) are 
     completed, the Under Secretary shall provide to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a joint briefing on such 
     plans.
       (c) Limitation on Availability of Funding for Certain Arrow 
     3 Testing.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
     this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for 
     the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $105,000,000 may be 
     obligated or expended for--
       (1) testing of the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Development Program 
     that is carried out at ranges located in the United States; 
     and
       (2) expenses relating to such testing that the Director 
     determines to be required and appropriate.
       (d) Cross Reference.--The amounts and purposes referred to 
     in this section correspond to amounts specified for such 
     purposes in the funding tables in division D.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
     Senate.

     SEC. 1688. REVIEW OF PROPOSED GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE 
                   SYSTEM CONTRACT.

       (a) Limitation on Changes to Contracting Strategy.--The 
     Director of the Missile Defense Agency may not change the 
     contracting strategy for the systems integration, operations, 
     and test of the ground-based midcourse defense system until 
     the date on which--
       (1) the report under subsection (b)(3) is submitted to the 
     congressional defense committees; and
       (2) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date of 
     such submission.
       (b) Review.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation shall conduct a review of the contract for 
     the systems integration, operations, and test of the ground-
     based midcourse defense system. Such review shall include the 
     following:
       (A) Contract performance of current industry-led prime 
     contract approach, including with respect to--

[[Page H5616]]

       (i) system readiness performance and reliability growth;
       (ii) development, integration, and fielding of new homeland 
     defense capabilities; and
       (iii) cost performance against baseline contract.
       (B) With respect to alternate contracting approaches--
       (i) an enumeration and detailing of any specific benefits 
     for each such alternate approach;
       (ii) an identification of specific costs to switching to 
     each such alternate approach; and
       (iii) detailing of the specific risks of each such 
     alternate approach to homeland defense, including regarding 
     schedule, costs, and the sustainment, maintenance, 
     development, and fielding, of integrated capabilities.
       (C) With respect to contracting approaches that transition 
     to Federal Government-led systems engineering integration and 
     test--
       (i) an enumeration of the processes, procedures, and 
     command media that have been established by the Missile 
     Defense Agency and proven to be effective for the execution 
     of programs that are of the scale of the ground-based 
     midcourse defense system; and
       (ii) the manner in which a new contract will control for 
     growth in the personnel and support contracts of the Federal 
     Government to support cost growth and minimize the risk of 
     schedule delay.
       (D) A baseline for historical and current staffing of the 
     ground-based midcourse defense system program, specifically 
     with respect to personnel of the Federal Government, 
     personnel of federally funded research and development 
     centers, personnel of departments and agencies of the Federal 
     Government, and support contractors.
       (E) Projections of the staffing categories specified in 
     subparagraph (D) under a new contracting strategy and how 
     such staffing categories will be limited to prevent 
     significant cost growth and to minimize the risk of schedule 
     delays.
       (F) The views and recommendations of the Director for any 
     changes the current ground-based midcourse defense system 
     contract or a new contract, including the proposed 
     contracting strategy of the Missile Defense Agency.
       (G) Any other such matters the Director determines 
     appropriate.
       (2) Transmission.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation shall transmit to the Under Secretary of 
     Defense for Research and Engineering and the Missile Defense 
     Executive Board the review under paragraph (1).
       (3) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
     the Under Secretary and the Missile Defense Executive Board 
     receive the review under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary 
     and Board shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report containing--
       (A) the review, without change; and
       (B) any views and recommendations of the Under Secretary 
     and the Board on such review.

     SEC. 1689. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
                   SPACE-BASED SENSOR LAYER FOR BALLISTIC MISSILE 
                   DEFENSE.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the defense of the homeland, the deployed members of 
     the Armed Forces, and the allies of the United States against 
     the threat of attack by ballistic and hypersonic missiles is 
     the highest priority of the Missile Defense Agency;
       (2) the Missile Defense Agency, and the Defense Agencies 
     and combat support agencies, must prioritize the design, 
     development, and deployment of the space-based missile 
     defense sensor layer;
       (3) a space-based missile defense sensor layer is essential 
     for the future of the missile defense of the homeland, the 
     deployed members of the Armed Forces, and the allies of the 
     United States; and
       (4) such a space-based layer can, and should, benefit a 
     multitude of other important defense and intelligence 
     requirements, including targeting and space situational 
     awareness.
       (b) Development.--After the date on which the Director of 
     the Missile Defense Agency submits the plan under subsection 
     (c), the Director, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
     Air Force and the heads of the Defense Agencies and combat 
     support agencies that the Director determines appropriate, 
     shall develop a space-based ballistic missile defense sensor 
     layer that--
       (1) provides missile defense engagement quality precision 
     tracking data of the United States beginning in the boost 
     phase and continuing throughout subsequent flight regimes; 
     and
       (2) serves other defense and intelligence requirements for 
     intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, including 
     targeting and space situational awareness; and
       (3) achieves an operational prototype payload at the 
     earliest practicable date.
       (c) Space-based Missile Defense Sensor Layer Plan.--Not 
     later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, the Director shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a plan that includes--
       (1) how the Director will carry out subsection (b), 
     including with respect to the estimated costs--
       (A) for the operational prototype payload specified in 
     paragraph (3) of such subsection; and
       (B) to develop, acquire, and deploy, and the lifecycle 
     costs to operate and sustain, a space-based sensor layer and 
     support systems to provide global missile defense coverage;
       (2) an assessment of the maturity of critical technologies 
     necessary to make operational such a space-based sensor 
     layer, and recommendations for any research and development 
     activities to rapidly mature such technologies;
       (3) an assessment of what capabilities such a space-based 
     sensor layer can contribute that other sensor layers do not 
     contribute;
       (4) how the Director will leverage the use of national 
     technical means, commercially available space and terrestrial 
     capabilities, hosted payloads, small satellites, and other 
     capabilities to carry out subsection (b); and
       (5) any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) The term ``combat support agency'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 193(f) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (3) The term ``Defense Agency'' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 101(a)(11) of title 10, United States Code.

     SEC. 1690. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
                   SPACE-BASED BALLISTIC MISSILE INTERCEPT LAYER.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) a space-based missile defense layer will exploit the 
     natural advantages of space systems and integrate them into 
     the ballistic missile defense system; and
       (2) these advantages include--
       (A) a 24/7 global presence to defend against asymmetric 
     threats;
       (B) access to geographically denied areas;
       (C) an ability to close a global fire control loop for such 
     system;
       (D) complementing existing terrestrial capabilities; and
       (E) increasing the overall survivability and resilience of 
     the entire national missile defense system.
       (b) Development.--The Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency shall develop a space-based ballistic missile 
     intercept layer to the ballistic missile defense system that 
     is--
       (1) regionally focused;
       (2) capable of providing boost-phase defense; and
       (3) achieves an operational capability at the earliest 
     practicable date.
       (c) Space-based Ballistic Missile Intercept Layer Plan.--
     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Director shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a plan to carry out subsection (b) 
     during the five-year period following the date of the plan. 
     Such plan shall include the following:
       (1) A concept definition phase consisting of multiple 
     awarded contracts to identify feasible solutions consistent 
     with architectural principles, performance goals, and price 
     points established by the Director, such as contracts 
     relating to--
       (A) refined requirements;
       (B) conceptual designs;
       (C) technology readiness assessments;
       (D) critical technical and operational issues;
       (E) cost, schedule, performance estimates; and
       (F) risk reduction plans.
       (2) A technology risk reduction phase consisting of up to 
     three competitively awarded contracts focused on maturing, 
     integrating, and characterizing key technologies, algorithms, 
     components, and sub-systems, such as contracts relating to--
       (A) refined concepts and designs;
       (B) engineering trade studies;
       (C) medium-to-high fidelity digital representations of the 
     space-based ballistic missile intercept weapon system; and
       (D) a proposed integration and test sequence that could 
     potentially lead to a live-fire boost phase intercept during 
     fiscal year 2022.
       (3) During the technology risk reduction phase, contractors 
     will define proposed demonstrations to a preliminary design 
     review level prior to a technology development phase down-
     select.
       (4) A technology development phase consisting of two 
     competitively awarded contracts to mature the preferred 
     space-based ballistic missile intercept weapon system 
     concepts and to potentially conduct a live-fire boost phase 
     intercept fly-off during fiscal year 2022 with brassboard 
     hardware and prototype software on a path to the operational 
     goal.
       (5) A concurrent space-based ballistic missile intercept 
     weapon system fire control test bed activity that 
     incrementally incorporates modeling and simulation elements, 
     real-world data, hardware, algorithms, and systems to 
     evaluate with increasing confidence the performance of 
     evolving designs and concepts of such weapon system from 
     target detection to intercept.
       (6) Any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
       (d) Establishment of Space Test Bed.--In carrying out 
     subsection (b), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     shall establish a space test bed to--
       (1) conduct research and development regarding options for 
     a space-based defensive layer, including with respect to 
     space-based interceptors and directed energy platforms; and
       (2) identify the most cost-efficient and promising 
     technological solutions to implementing such layer.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.

     SEC. 1691. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR GROUND-
                   BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT OF THE 
                   BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

       Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
     otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the ground-
     based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
     defense system, $50,000,000 may not be obligated or expended 
     until the date on which the Secretary of

[[Page H5617]]

     Defense provides to the congressional defense committees--
       (1) a written certification that the risk of mission 
     failure of ground-based midcourse interceptor enhanced kill 
     vehicles due to foreign object debris has been minimized; or
       (2) if the certification under paragraph (1) cannot be 
     made, a briefing on the corrective measures that will be 
     carried out to minimize such risk, including--
       (A) a timeline for the implementation of the measures; and
       (B) the estimated cost of implementing the measures.

     SEC. 1692. CONVENTIONAL PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE WEAPONS SYSTEM.

       (a) Early Operational Capability.--The Secretary of 
     Defense, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint 
     Chiefs of Staff, shall plan to reach early operational 
     capability for the conventional prompt strike weapon system 
     by not later than September 30, 2022.
       (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for research, development, 
     test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, for the conventional 
     prompt global strike weapons system, not more than 50 percent 
     may be obligated or expended until the date on which the 
     Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with 
     the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Commander of the United 
     States European Command, the Commander of the United States 
     Pacific Command, and the Commander of the United States 
     Strategic Command, submits to the congressional defense 
     committees, a report on--
       (1) the required level of resources that is consistent with 
     the level of priority assigned to the associated capability 
     gap;
       (2) the estimated period for the delivery of a medium-range 
     early operational capability, the required level of resources 
     necessary to field a medium-range conventional prompt global 
     strike weapon within the United States (including the 
     territories and possessions of the United States), and a 
     detailed plan consistent with the urgency of the associated 
     capability gap across multiple platforms;
       (3) the joint performance requirements that--
       (A) ensure interoperability, where appropriate, between and 
     among joint military capabilities; and
       (B) are necessary, as designated by the Chairman of the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, to fulfill capability gaps of more 
     than one military department, Defense Agency, or other 
     element of the Department; and
       (4) in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, any plan 
     (including policy options) considered appropriate to address 
     any potential risks of ambiguity from the launch or 
     employment of such a capability.

     SEC. 1693. DETERMINATION OF LOCATION OF CONTINENTAL UNITED 
                   STATES INTERCEPTOR SITE.

       (a) Determination.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     on which the Ballistic Missile Defense Review is issued, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall determine the location of a 
     potential additional continental United States interceptor 
     site. In making such determination, the Secretary shall 
     consider the full spectrum of contributing factors, including 
     with respect to each of the following:
       (1) Strategic and operational effectiveness, including with 
     respect to the location that is the most advantageous site to 
     the continental United States, including by having the 
     capability to provide shoot-assess-shoot coverage to the 
     entire continental United States.
       (2) Existing infrastructure at the location.
       (3) Economic impacts.
       (4) Public support.
       (5) Cost to construct and operate.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after making the 
     determination described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     detailing all of the contributing factors considered by the 
     Secretary in making such determination, including any other 
     factors that the Secretary considered, including any relevant 
     recommendations of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

     SEC. 1695. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
                   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

       Subparagraph (C) of section 130i(e)(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(C)(i) relates to--
       ``(I) the nuclear deterrence mission of the Department of 
     Defense, including with respect to nuclear command and 
     control, integrated tactical warning and attack assessment, 
     and continuity of government;
       ``(II) the missile defense mission of the Department; or
       ``(III) the national security space mission of the 
     Department; or

       ``(ii) is part of a Major Range and Test Facility Base (as 
     defined in section 196(i) of this title).''.

     SEC. 1696. USE OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS IN DISTRIBUTED COMMON 
                   GROUND SYSTEMS.

       (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
     procurement process for each covered Distributed Common 
     Ground System shall be carried out in accordance with section 
     2377 of title 10, United States Code.
       (b) Exceptions.--Section 2377 of title 10, United States 
     Code, shall not apply to the procurement of an item or 
     service for a covered Distributed Common Ground System if the 
     item or service--
       (1) is used to integrate the capabilities of the system 
     with another information system, in a case in which such 
     integration is required; or
       (2) is not available in an existing commercial product.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees; and
       (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Covered dcgs system.--The term ``covered Distributed 
     Common Ground System'' includes the following:
       (A) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Army.
       (B) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Navy.
       (C) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Marine 
     Corps.
       (D) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Air Force.
       (E) The Distributed Common Ground System of the Special 
     Operations Forces.

     SEC. 1697. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF COSTS RELATING TO 
                   AMMONIUM PERCHLORATE.

       (a) Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     seek to enter into a contract with a federally funded 
     research and development center to conduct an assessment of 
     the costs to the Department of Defense relating to 
     contractors and subcontractors of the Department using a new 
     supplier of ammonium perchlorate for weapon systems.
       (b) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) For each weapon system that must be requalified by 
     reason of the new supplier of ammonium perchlorate as 
     described in subsection (a), an estimate of the 
     requalification costs.
       (2) The types and number of tests that are needed for any 
     such requalification, including whether any currently planned 
     tests, as of the date of the assessment, may be leveraged, or 
     testing across programs may be used, to decrease 
     requalification costs while retaining and ensuring 
     qualification standards.
       (3) Estimates of any other costs relating to ammonium 
     perchlorate that the Secretary determines appropriate.
       (c) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees the assessment under 
     subsection (a), without change, together with any comments or 
     views of the Secretary regarding the assessment.

     SEC. 1698. LIMITATION AND BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS REGARDING 
                   AMMONIUM PERCHLORATE.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
     the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, shall 
     conduct a business case analysis regarding the options of the 
     Federal Government to ensure a robust domestic industrial 
     base to supply ammonium perchlorate for use in solid rocket 
     motors. Such analysis should include assessments of the near 
     and long-term costs, program impacts, opportunities for 
     competition, opportunities for redundant or complementary 
     capabilities, and national security implications of--
       (1) continuing to rely on one domestic provider;
       (2) supporting development of a second domestic source;
       (3) procuring ammonium perchlorate as Government-furnished 
     material and providing it to all necessary programs; and
       (4) such other options as the Secretary determines 
     appropriate.
       (b) Elements.--The analysis under subsection (a) shall, at 
     minimum, include--
       (1) an estimate of all associated costs, including 
     development, procurement, and qualification costs, as 
     applicable;
       (2) an assessment of options, under various scenarios, for 
     the quantity of ammonium perchlorate that would be required 
     by the Department of Defense; and
       (3) the assessment of the Secretary of how the requirements 
     for ammonium perchlorate of other Federal agencies impact the 
     requirements of the Department of Defense.
       (c) Report.--The Secretary shall submit the business case 
     analysis required by subsection (a) to the Comptroller 
     General of the United States and the Committees on Armed 
     Services of the Senate and House of Representatives by March 
     1, 2018, along with any views of the Secretary.
       (d) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
     shall conduct a review of the report submitted by the 
     Secretary under subsection (c) and, not later than 30 days 
     after receiving such report, provide a briefing on such 
     review to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives.
       (e) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended for the development or construction of 
     a new source for ammonium perchlorate until 45 days after the 
     date on which the report under subsection (c) is submitted to 
     the Comptroller General and the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the Senate and House of Representatives.
       (f) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
     limitation under subsection (e) if the Secretary--
       (1) determines such waiver to be in the national security 
     interest of the United States; and
       (2) submits written notification of such determination to 
     the congressional defense committees and waits 15 days.

     SEC. 1699. INDUSTRIAL BASE FOR LARGE SOLID ROCKET MOTORS AND 
                   RELATED TECHNOLOGIES.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
     the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration, shall develop a plan to ensure a robust 
     domestic industrial base for large solid rocket motors, 
     including

[[Page H5618]]

     with respect to the critical technologies, subsystems, 
     components, and materials within and relating to such rocket 
     motors.
       (b) Sustainment of Domestic Suppliers.--The Secretary shall 
     develop the plan under subsection (a) in a manner that, if 
     carried out, sustains not less than two domestic suppliers 
     for each of the following:
       (1) Large solid rocket motors.
       (2) Small liquid-fueled rocket engines.
       (3) Aeroshells for reentry vehicles (or reentry bodies).
       (4) Strategic radiation-hardened microelectronics.
       (5) Any other critical technologies, subsystems, 
     components, and materials within and relating to large solid 
     rocket motors that the Secretary determines appropriate.
       (c) Report.--
       (1) Submission.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     Senate a report that includes the plan under subsection (a).
       (2) Matters included.--With respect to the sustainment of 
     domestic suppliers as described in subsection (b), the report 
     under paragraph (1) shall include the views of the Secretary 
     on the following:
       (A) Such sustainment of not less than two domestic 
     suppliers for each item specified in paragraphs (1) through 
     (5) of such subsection.
       (B) The risks within the industrial base for each such 
     item.
       (C) The estimated costs for such sustainment.
       (D) The opportunities to ensure or promote competition 
     within the industrial base for each such item.

     SEC. 1699A. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCING INFORMATION SHARING 
                   FOR SECURITY OF SUPPLY CHAIN.

       (a) Establishment.--Not later than June 1, 2019, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program to 
     enhance information sharing with cleared defense contractors 
     to ensure all source information is appropriately, 
     singularly, and exclusively shared for the purpose of 
     ensuring the security of the supply chain of covered 
     programs.
       (b) Selection.--The Secretary shall select 10 acquisition 
     or sustainment programs of the Department of Defense to 
     participate in the pilot program under subsection (a), of 
     which--
       (1) not fewer than one program shall be related to nuclear 
     weapons;
       (2) not fewer than one program shall be related to nuclear 
     command, control, and communications;
       (3) not fewer than one program shall be related to 
     continuity of government;
       (4) not fewer than one program shall be related to 
     ballistic missile defense;
       (5) not fewer than one program shall be related to other 
     command and control systems; and
       (6) not fewer than one program shall be related to 
     logistics.
       (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     that includes--
       (1) details on how the Secretary will establish the pilot 
     program under subsection (a) to ensure all source information 
     is appropriately, singularly, and exclusively shared for the 
     purpose of ensuring the security of the supply chain of 
     covered programs; and
       (2) the identification of any legislative action or 
     administrative action required to provide the Secretary with 
     specific additional authorities required to fully implement 
     the pilot program.
       (d) Cleared Defense Contractors Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``cleared defense contractors'' means contractors of 
     the Department of Defense who have a security clearance, 
     including contractor facilities that have a security 
     clearance.

     SEC. 1699B. COMMISSION TO ASSESS THE THREAT TO THE UNITED 
                   STATES FROM ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE ATTACKS AND 
                   EVENTS.

       (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a 
     commission to be known as the ``Commission to Assess the 
     Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse 
     Attacks and Events'' (hereafter in this section referred to 
     as the ``Commission''). The purpose of the Commission is to 
     assess and make recommendations with respect to the threat to 
     the United States from electromagnetic pulse attacks and 
     events.
       (b) Composition.--
       (1) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 12 
     members appointed as follows:
       (A) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
       (B) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
     of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (C) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the Senate.
       (D) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
     of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
       (2) Chair and vice chair.--
       (A) Chair.--The chair of the Committee on Armed Services of 
     the House of Representative and the chair of the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate shall jointly designate one 
     member of the Commission to serve as chair of the Commission.
       (B) Vice chair.--The ranking minority member of the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representative 
     and the ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate shall jointly designate one member of 
     the Commission to serve as vice chair of the Commission.
       (3) Security clearance required.--Each individual appointed 
     as a member of the Commission shall possess (or have recently 
     possessed before the date of such appointment) the 
     appropriate security clearance necessary to carry out the 
     duties of the Commission.
       (4) Qualification.--Members of the Commission shall be 
     appointed from among private United States citizens with 
     knowledge and expertise in the scientific, technical, and 
     defense aspects of electromagnetic pulse threats and 
     vulnerabilities.
       (5) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
     appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the 
     Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
     appointment.
       (c) Duties.--
       (1) Review and assessment.--The Commission shall review and 
     assess--
       (A) the nature, magnitude, and likelihood of potential 
     electromagnetic pulse (hereafter in section referred to as 
     ``EMP'') attacks and events, both manmade and natural, that 
     could be directed at or affect the United States within the 
     next 20 years;
       (B) the vulnerability of United States military and 
     civilian systems to EMP attacks and events, including with 
     respect to emergency preparedness and immediate response;
       (C) the capability of the United States to repair and 
     recover from damage inflicted on United States military and 
     civilian systems by EMP attacks and events; and
       (D) the feasibility and cost of hardening critical military 
     and civilian systems against EMP attack and events.
       (2) Recommendations.--The Commission shall recommend any 
     actions it believes should be taken by the United States to 
     better prepare, prevent, mitigate, or recover military and 
     civilian systems with respect to EMP attacks and events.
       (d) Cooperation From Government.--
       (1) Cooperation.--In carrying out its duties, the 
     Commission shall receive the full and timely cooperation of 
     the Secretary of Defense and the pertinent heads of any other 
     Federal agency in providing the Commission with analysis, 
     briefings, and other information necessary for the 
     fulfillment of its responsibilities.
       (2) Liaison.--The Secretary shall designate at least one 
     officer or employee of the Department of Defense to serve as 
     a liaison officer between the Department and the Commission.
       (e) Report.--
       (1) Final report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2018, the 
     Commission shall submit to the President, the Secretary of 
     Defense, the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     Senate a report on the findings, conclusions, and 
     recommendations of the Commission.
       (B) Form of report.--The report submitted to Congress under 
     subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may include a classified annex.
       (2) Views of the secretary.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the submittal of the report under paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate a report that contains the views 
     of the Secretary with respect to the findings, conclusions, 
     and recommendations of the Commission and any actions the 
     Secretary intends to take as a result.
       (3) Interim briefing.--Not later than June 1, 2018, the 
     Commission shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the Senate a briefing on the status of the 
     activities of the Commission, including a discussion of any 
     interim recommendations.
       (f) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act for the Department of Defense, $3,000,000 is 
     available to fund the activities of the Commission, as 
     specified in the funding tables in division D.
       (g) Application of Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The 
     Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to 
     the Commission.
       (h) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate three 
     months after the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
     submits the report under subsection (e)(2).
       (i) Repeal.--Title XIV of Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law 106-398) 
     is repealed.

     SEC. 1699C. PILOT PROGRAM ON ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM 
                   MAPPING.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     establish a pilot program to assess the viability of space-
     based mapping of the electromagnetic spectrum used by the 
     Department of Defense.
       (b) Duration.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
     the pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the 
     date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.
       (c) Interim Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate (and to any other 
     congressional defense committee upon request) demonstrating 
     how the Secretary plans to implement the pilot program under 
     subsection (a).
       (d) Final Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the pilot 
     program under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary 
     shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services 
     of the House of Representatives and the Senate (and to any 
     other congressional defense committee upon request) on the 
     utility, cost, and other considerations regarding the mapping 
     of the electromagnetic spectrum used by the Department of 
     Defense.

[[Page H5619]]

  


       TITLE XVII--MATTERS RELATING TO SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT

  Subtitle A--Improving Transparency and Clarity for Small Businesses

     SEC. 1701. IMPROVING REPORTING ON SMALL BUSINESS GOALS.

       (a) In General.--Section 15(h)(2)(E) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)(2)(E)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (i)--
       (A) in subclause (III), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(V) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns for 
     purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VI) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (2) in clause (ii)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by service-disabled veterans for purposes of 
     the initial contract; and
       ``(VII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to qualified HUBZone small business 
     concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
     socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, small 
     business concerns owned and controlled by women, or a subset 
     of any such concerns;'';

       (3) in clause (iii)--
       (A) in subclause (V), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VII) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be qualified HUBZone small 
     business concerns for purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VIII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, small business 
     concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
     disadvantaged individuals, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (4) in clause (iv)--
       (A) in subclause (V), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(VII) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals for purposes of the initial contract; and
       ``(VIII) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by women, or a subset of any such concerns;'';

       (5) in clause (v)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (V), by inserting ``and'' at the end; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by an Indian tribe other than an Alaska Native Corporation 
     for purposes of the initial contract;'';

       (6) in clause (vi)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (V), by inserting ``and'' at the end; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by a Native Hawaiian Organization for purposes of the initial 
     contract;'';

       (7) in clause (vii)--
       (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

       ``(VI) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     by an Alaska Native Corporation for purposes of the initial 
     contract; and''; and

       (8) in clause (viii)--
       (A) in subclause (VII), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subclause (VIII), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
     and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

       ``(IX) that were purchased by another entity after the 
     initial contract was awarded and as a result of the purchase, 
     would no longer be deemed to be small business concerns owned 
     and controlled by women for purposes of the initial contract; 
     and
       ``(X) that were awarded using a procurement method that 
     restricted competition to small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
     small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
     individuals, or a subset of any such concerns; and''.

       (b) Effective Date.--The Administrator of the Small 
     Business Administration shall be required to report on the 
     information required by clauses (i)(V), (ii)(VI), (iii)(VII), 
     (iv)(VII), (v)(VI), (vi)(VI), (vii)(VI), and (viii)(IX) of 
     section 15(h)(2)(E) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     644(h)(2)(E)) beginning on the date that such information is 
     available in the Federal Procurement Data System, the System 
     for Award Management, or any new or successor system.

     SEC. 1702. UNIFORMITY IN PROCUREMENT TERMINOLOGY.

       (a) In General.--Section 15(j)(1) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 644(j)(1)) is amended by striking ``greater than 
     $2,500 but not greater than $100,000'' and inserting 
     ``greater than the micro-purchase threshold, but not greater 
     than the simplified acquisition threshold''.
       (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 3(m) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(m)) is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(m) Definitions Relating to Contracting.--In this Act:
       ``(1) Prime contract.--The term `prime contract' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 8701(4) of title 41, 
     United States Code.
       ``(2) Prime contractor.--The term `prime contractor' has 
     the meaning given such term in section 8701(5) of title 41, 
     United States Code.
       ``(3) Simplified acquisition threshold.--The term 
     `simplified acquisition threshold' has the meaning given such 
     term in section 134 of title 41, United States Code.
       ``(4) Micro-purchase threshold.--The term `micro-purchase 
     threshold' has the meaning given such term in section 1902 of 
     title 41, United States Code.
       ``(5) Total purchases and contracts for property and 
     services.--The term `total purchases and contracts for 
     property and services' shall mean total number and total 
     dollar amount of contracts and orders for property and 
     services.''.

     SEC. 1703. RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL MARKET 
                   REPRESENTATIVES.

       Section 4(h) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633(h)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(h) Commercial Market Representatives.--
       ``(1) Duties.--The principal duties of a commercial market 
     representative employed by the Administrator and reporting to 
     the senior official appointed by the Administrator with 
     responsibilities under sections 8, 15, 31, and 36 (or the 
     designee of such official) shall be to advance the policies 
     established in section 8(d)(1) relating to subcontracting. 
     Such duties shall include--
       ``(A) helping prime contractors to find small business 
     concerns that are capable of performing subcontracts;
       ``(B) for contractors awarded contracts containing the 
     clause described in section 8(d)(3), providing--
       ``(i) counseling on the contractor's responsibility to 
     maximize subcontracting opportunities for small business 
     concerns;
       ``(ii) instruction on methods and tools to identify 
     potential subcontractors that are small business concerns; 
     and
       ``(iii) assistance to increase awards to subcontractors 
     that are small business concerns through visits, training, 
     and reviews of past performance;
       ``(C) providing counseling on how a small business concern 
     may promote its capacity to contractors awarded contracts 
     containing the clause described in section 8(d)(3); and
       ``(D) conducting periodic reviews of contractors awarded 
     contracts containing the clause described in section 8(d)(3) 
     to assess compliance with subcontracting plans required under 
     section 8(d)(6).
       ``(2) Certification requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
     subparagraph (B), a commercial market representative referred 
     to in section 15(q)(3) shall have a Level I Federal 
     Acquisition Certification in Contracting (or any successor 
     certification) or the equivalent Department of Defense 
     certification.
       ``(B) Delay of certification requirement.--The 
     certification described in subparagraph (A) is not required--
       ``(i) for any person serving as a commercial market 
     representative on the date of the enactment of this 
     subsection, until the date that is one calendar year after 
     the date such person was appointed as a commercial market 
     representative; or
       ``(ii) for any person serving as a commercial market 
     representative on or before November 25, 2015, until November 
     25, 2020.
       ``(3) Job posting requirements.--The duties and 
     certification requirements described in this subsection shall 
     be included in any initial job posting for the position of a 
     commercial market representative.''.

     SEC. 1704. RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
                   SPECIALISTS.

       Section 4(g) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633(g)) 
     is amended to read as follows:
       ``(g) Business Opportunity Specialists.--
       ``(1) Duties.--The exclusive duties of a Business 
     Opportunity Specialist employed by the Administrator and 
     reporting to the senior official appointed by the 
     Administrator with responsibilities under sections 8, 15, 31, 
     and 36 (or the

[[Page H5620]]

     designee of such official) shall be to implement sections 7, 
     8, and 45 and to complete other duties related to contracting 
     programs under this Act. Such duties shall include--
       ``(A) with respect to small business concerns eligible to 
     receive contracts and subcontracts pursuant to section 8(a)--
       ``(i) providing guidance, counseling, and referrals for 
     assistance with technical, management, financial, or other 
     matters that will improve the competitive viability of such 
     concerns;
       ``(ii) identifying causes of success or failure of such 
     concerns;
       ``(iii) providing comprehensive assessments of such 
     concerns, including identifying the strengths and weaknesses 
     of such concerns;
       ``(iv) monitoring and documenting compliance with the 
     requirements of sections 7 and 8 and any regulations 
     implementing those sections;
       ``(v) explaining the requirements of sections 7, 8, 15, 31, 
     36, and 45; and
       ``(vi) advising on compliance with contracting regulations 
     (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of 
     such a contract or subcontract;
       ``(B) reviewing and monitoring compliance with mentor-
     protege agreements under section 45;
       ``(C) representing the interests of the Administrator and 
     small business concerns in the award, modification, and 
     administration of contracts and subcontracts awarded pursuant 
     to section 8(a); and
       ``(D) reporting fraud or abuse under section 7, 8, 15, 31, 
     36, or 45 or any regulations implementing such sections.
       ``(2) Certification requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
     subparagraph (B), a Business Opportunity Specialist described 
     under section 7(j)(10)(D) shall have a Level I Federal 
     Acquisition Certification in Contracting (or any successor 
     certification) or the equivalent Department of Defense 
     certification.
       ``(B) Delay of certification requirement.--The 
     certification described in subparagraph (A) is not required--
       ``(i) for any person serving as a Business Opportunity 
     Specialist on the date of the enactment of this subsection, 
     until the date that is one calendar year after the date such 
     person was appointed as a Business Opportunity Specialist; or
       ``(ii) for any person serving as a Business Opportunity 
     Specialist on or before January 3, 2013, until January 3, 
     2020.
       ``(3) Job posting requirements.--The duties and 
     certification requirements described in this subsection shall 
     be included in any initial job posting for the position of a 
     Business Opportunity Specialist.''.

                 Subtitle B--Women's Business Programs

     SEC. 1711. OFFICE OF WOMEN'S BUSINESS OWNERSHIP.

       Section 29(g) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(g)) 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
     and inserting the following:
       ``(B) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the 
     Assistant Administrator shall be to administer the programs 
     and services of the Office of Women's Business Ownership.
       ``(C) Duties.--The Assistant Administrator shall perform 
     the following functions with respect to the Office of Women's 
     Business Ownership:
       ``(i) Recommend the annual administrative and program 
     budgets of the Office and eligible entities receiving a grant 
     under the Women's Business Center Program.
       ``(ii) Review the annual budgets submitted by each eligible 
     entity receiving a grant under the Women's Business Center 
     Program.
       ``(iii) Select applicants to receive grants to operate a 
     women's business center after reviewing information required 
     by this section, including the budget of each applicant.
       ``(iv) Collaborate with other Federal departments and 
     agencies, State and local governments, not-for-profit 
     organizations, and for-profit enterprises to maximize 
     utilization of taxpayer dollars and reduce (or eliminate) any 
     duplication among the programs overseen by the Office of 
     Women's Business Ownership and those of other entities that 
     provide similar services to women entrepreneurs.
       ``(v) Maintain a clearinghouse to provide for the 
     dissemination and exchange of information between women's 
     business centers.
       ``(vi) Serve as the vice chairperson of the Interagency 
     Committee on Women's Business Enterprise and as the liaison 
     for the National Women's Business Council.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) Mission.--The mission of the Office of Women's 
     Business Ownership shall be to assist women entrepreneurs to 
     start, grow, and compete in global markets by providing 
     quality support with access to capital, access to markets, 
     job creation, growth, and counseling by--
       ``(A) fostering participation of women entrepreneurs in the 
     economy by overseeing a network of women's business centers 
     throughout States and territories;
       ``(B) creating public-private partnerships to support women 
     entrepreneurs and conducting outreach and education to 
     startup and existing small business concerns owned and 
     controlled by women; and
       ``(C) working with other programs overseen by the 
     Administrator to ensure women are well-represented and being 
     served and identifying gaps where participation by women 
     could be increased.
       ``(4) Accreditation program.--
       ``(A) Establishment.--Not later than 270 days after the 
     date of enactment of this paragraph, the Administrator shall 
     establish standards for an accreditation program for 
     accrediting eligible entities receiving a grant under this 
     section.
       ``(B) Transition provision.--Before the date on which 
     standards are established under subparagraph (A), the 
     Administrator may not terminate a grant under this section 
     absent evidence of fraud or other criminal misconduct by the 
     recipient.
       ``(C) Contracting authority.--The Administrator may provide 
     financial assistance, by contract or otherwise, to a relevant 
     national women's business center representative association 
     to provide assistance in establishing the standards required 
     under subparagraph (A) or for carrying out an accreditation 
     program pursuant to such standards.''.

     SEC. 1712. WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.

       (a) Definitions.--Section 29(a) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 656(a)) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (4);
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
     (3) and (4), respectively;
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) the term `eligible entity' means--
       ``(A) an organization described in section 501(c) of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 
     section 501(a) of such Code;
       ``(B) a State, regional, or local economic development 
     organization, so long as the organization certifies that 
     grant funds received under this section will not be 
     commingled with other funds;
       ``(C) an institution of higher education, unless such 
     institution is currently receiving a grant under section 21;
       ``(D) a development, credit, or finance corporation 
     chartered by a State, so long as the corporation certifies 
     that grant funds received under this section will not be 
     commingled with other funds; or
       ``(E) any combination of entities listed in subparagraphs 
     (A) through (D);''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) the term `women's business center' means the location 
     at which counseling and training on the management, 
     operations (including manufacturing, services, and retail), 
     access to capital, international trade, Government 
     procurement opportunities, and any other matter is needed to 
     start, maintain, or expand a small business concern owned and 
     controlled by women.''.
       (b) Authority.--Section 29(b) of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 656(b)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
     subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and adjusting 
     the margins accordingly;
       (2) by striking ``The Administration'' and all that follows 
     through ``5-year projects'' and inserting the following:
       ``(1) In general.--There is established a Women's Business 
     Center Program under which the Administrator may provide a 
     grant to any eligible entity to operate one or more women's 
     business centers'';
       (3) by striking ``The projects shall'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(2) Use of funds.--The women's business centers shall be 
     designed to provide counseling and training that meets the 
     needs of women, especially socially or economically 
     disadvantaged women, and shall''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(3) Amount of grants.--
       ``(A) In general.--The amount of a grant provided under 
     this subsection to an eligible entity per project year shall 
     be not more than $185,000 (as such amount is annually 
     adjusted by the Administrator to reflect the change in 
     inflation).
       ``(B) Additional grants.--
       ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), with 
     respect to an eligible entity that has received $185,000 
     under this subsection in a project year, the Administrator 
     may award an additional grant under this subsection of up to 
     $65,000 during such project year if the Administrator 
     determines that the eligible entity--

       ``(I) agrees to obtain, after its application has been 
     approved and notice of award has been issued, cash 
     contributions from non-Federal sources of 1 non-Federal 
     dollar for each Federal dollar;
       ``(II) is in good standing with the Women's Business Center 
     Program; and
       ``(III) has met performance goals for the previous project 
     year, if applicable.

       ``(ii) Limitations.--The Administrator may only award 
     additional grants under clause (i)--

       ``(I) during the 3rd and 4th quarters of the fiscal year; 
     and
       ``(II) from unobligated amounts made available to the 
     Administrator to carry out this section.

       ``(4) Notice and comment required.--The Administrator may 
     only make a change to the standards by which an eligible 
     entity obtains or maintains grants under this section, the 
     standards for accreditation, or any other requirement for the 
     operation of a women's business center if the Administrator 
     first provides notice and the opportunity for public comment, 
     as set forth in section 553(b) of title 5, United States 
     Code, without regard to any exceptions provided for under 
     such section.''.
       (c) Conditions of Participation.--Section 29(c) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(c)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking ``the recipient organization'' and 
     inserting ``an eligible entity''; and
       (B) by striking ``financial assistance'' and inserting ``a 
     grant'';
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``financial assistance authorized pursuant 
     to this section may be made by grant, contract, or 
     cooperative agreement and'' and inserting ``grants authorized 
     pursuant to this section''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``a recipient 
     organization'' and inserting ``an eligible entity'';

[[Page H5621]]

       (3) in paragraph (4)--
       (A) by striking ``recipient of assistance'' and inserting 
     ``eligible entity'';
       (B) by striking ``during any project, it shall not be 
     eligible thereafter'' and inserting ``during any project for 
     2 consecutive years, the eligible entity shall not be 
     eligible at any time after that 2-year period'';
       (C) by striking ``such organization'' and inserting ``the 
     eligible entity''; and
       (D) by striking ``the recipient'' and inserting ``the 
     eligible entity''; and
       (4) by adding at end the following:
       ``(5) Separation of project and funds.--An eligible entity 
     shall--
       ``(A) carry out a project under this section separately 
     from other projects, if any, of the eligible entity; and
       ``(B) separately maintain and account for any grants under 
     this section.
       ``(6) Examination of eligible entities.--
       ``(A) Required site visit.--Each applicant, prior to 
     receiving a grant under this section, shall have a site visit 
     by an employee of the Administration, in order to ensure that 
     the applicant has sufficient resources to provide the 
     services for which the grant is being provided.
       ``(B) Annual review.--An employee of the Administration 
     shall--
       ``(i) conduct an annual review of the compliance of each 
     eligible entity receiving a grant under this section with the 
     grant agreement, including a financial examination; and
       ``(ii) provide such review to the eligible entity as 
     required under subsection (l).
       ``(7) Remediation of problems.--
       ``(A) Plan of action.--If a review of an eligible entity 
     under paragraph (6)(B) identifies any problems, the eligible 
     entity shall, within 45 calendar days after receiving such 
     review, provide the Assistant Administrator with a plan of 
     action, including specific milestones, for correcting such 
     problems.
       ``(B) Plan of action review by the assistant 
     administrator.--The Assistant Administrator shall review each 
     plan of action submitted under subparagraph (A) within 30 
     calendar days after receiving such plan and--
       ``(i) if the Assistant Administrator determines that such 
     plan will bring the eligible entity into compliance with all 
     the terms of the grant agreement, approve such plan; or
       ``(ii) if the Assistant Administrator determines that such 
     plan is inadequate to remedy the problems identified in the 
     annual review to which the plan of action relates, the 
     Assistant Administrator shall set forth such reasons in 
     writing and provide such determination to the eligible entity 
     within 15 calendar days after such determination.
       ``(C) Amendment to plan of action.--An eligible entity 
     receiving a determination under subparagraph (B)(ii) shall 
     have 30 calendar days after the receipt of the determination 
     to amend the plan of action to satisfy the problems 
     identified by the Assistant Administrator and resubmit such 
     plan to the Assistant Administrator.
       ``(D) Amended plan review by the assistant administrator.--
     Within 15 calendar days after the receipt of an amended plan 
     of action under subparagraph (C), the Assistant Administrator 
     shall either approve or reject such plan and provide such 
     approval or rejection in writing to the eligible entity.
       ``(E) Appeal of assistant administrator determination.--
       ``(i) In general.--If the Assistant Administrator rejects 
     an amended plan under subparagraph (D), the eligible entity 
     shall have the opportunity to appeal such decision to the 
     Administrator, who may delegate such appeal to an appropriate 
     officer of the Administration.
       ``(ii) Opportunity for explanation.--Any appeal described 
     under clause (i) shall provide an opportunity for the 
     eligible entity to provide, in writing, an explanation of why 
     the eligible entity's plan remedies the problems identified 
     in the annual review.
       ``(iii) Notice of determination.--The determination of the 
     appeal shall be provided to the eligible entity, in writing, 
     within 15 calendar days after the eligible entity's filing of 
     the appeal.
       ``(iv) Effect of failure to act.--If the Administrator 
     fails to act on an appeal made under this subparagraph within 
     the 15 calendar day period specified under clause (iii), the 
     eligible entity's amended plan of action submitted under 
     subparagraph (C) shall be deemed to be approved.
       ``(8) Termination of grant.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall require that, if 
     an eligible entity fails to comply with a plan of action 
     approved by the Assistant Administrator under paragraph 
     (7)(B)(i) or an amended plan of action approved by the 
     Assistant Administrator under paragraph (7)(D) or approved on 
     appeal under paragraph (7)(E), the Assistant Administrator 
     terminate the grant provided to the eligible entity under 
     this section.
       ``(B) Appeal of termination.--An eligible entity that has a 
     grant terminated under subparagraph (A) shall have the 
     opportunity to challenge the termination on the record and 
     after an opportunity for a hearing.
       ``(C) Final agency action.--The determination made pursuant 
     to subparagraph (B) shall be considered final agency action 
     for the purposes of chapter 7 of title 5, United States 
     Code.''.
       (d) Submission of 5-Year Plan.--Section 29(e) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(e)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``applicant organization'' and inserting 
     ``eligible entity'';
       (2) by striking ``a recipient organization'' and inserting 
     ``an eligible entity'';
       (3) by striking ``financial assistance'' and inserting 
     ``grants''; and
       (4) by striking ``site''.
       (e) Applications and Criteria for Initial Grant.--
     Subsection (f) of section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 656) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(f) Applications and Criteria for Initial Grant.--
       ``(1) Application.--Each eligible entity desiring a grant 
     under subsection (b) shall submit to the Administrator an 
     application that contains--
       ``(A) a certification that the eligible entity--
       ``(i) has designated an executive director or program 
     manager, who may be compensated using grant funds under 
     subsection (b) or other sources, to manage the women's 
     business center for which a grant under subsection (b) is 
     sought; and
       ``(ii) meets the accounting and reporting requirements 
     established by the Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget;
       ``(B) information demonstrating that the eligible entity 
     has the ability and resources to meet the needs of the market 
     to be served by the women's business center, including the 
     ability to obtain the non-Federal contribution required under 
     subsection (c);
       ``(C) information relating to the assistance to be provided 
     by the women's business center in the area in which the 
     women's business center is located;
       ``(D) information demonstrating the experience and 
     effectiveness of the eligible entity in--
       ``(i) conducting the services described under subsection 
     (a)(5);
       ``(ii) providing training and services to a representative 
     number of women who are socially or economically 
     disadvantaged; and
       ``(iii) working with resource partners of the 
     Administration and other entities, such as universities; and
       ``(E) a 5-year plan that describes the ability of the 
     eligible entity to provide the services described under 
     subsection (a)(3), including to a representative number of 
     women who are socially or economically disadvantaged.
       ``(2) Review and approval of applications for initial 
     grants.--
       ``(A) Review and selection of eligible entities.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Administrator shall review 
     applications to determine whether the applicant can meet 
     obligations to perform the activities required by a grant 
     under this section, including--

       ``(I) the experience of the applicant in conducting 
     activities required by this section;
       ``(II) the amount of time needed for the applicant to 
     commence operations should it be awarded a grant;
       ``(III) the capacity of the applicant to meet the 
     accreditation standards established by the Administrator in a 
     timely manner;
       ``(IV) the ability of the applicant to sustain operations 
     for more than 5 years (including its ability to obtain 
     sufficient non-Federal funds for that period);
       ``(V) the location of the women's business center and its 
     proximity to other grant recipients under this section; and
       ``(VI) the population density of the area to be served by 
     the women's business center.

       ``(ii) Selection criteria.--

       ``(I) Guidance.--The Administrator shall issue guidance 
     (after providing an opportunity for notice and comment) to 
     specify the criteria for review and selection of applicants 
     under this subsection.
       ``(II) Modifications prohibited after announcement.--With 
     respect to a public announcement of any opportunity to be 
     awarded a grant under this section made by the Administrator 
     pursuant to subsection (l)(1), the Administrator may not 
     modify guidance issued pursuant to subclause (I) with respect 
     to such opportunity unless required to do so by an Act of 
     Congress or an order of a Federal court.
       ``(III) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this clause may 
     be construed as prohibiting the Administrator from modifying 
     the guidance issued pursuant to subclause (I) (after 
     providing an opportunity for notice and comment) as such 
     guidance applies to an opportunity to be awarded a grant 
     under this section that the Administrator has not yet 
     publicly announced pursuant to subsection (l)(1).

       ``(B) Record retention.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain a copy 
     of each application submitted under this subsection for not 
     less than 5 years.
       ``(ii) Paperwork reduction.--The Administrator shall take 
     steps to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
     paperwork burden associated with carrying out clause (i).''.
       (f) Notification Requirements Under the Women's Business 
     Center Program.--Section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 656) is amended by inserting after subsection (k) the 
     following:
       ``(l) Notification Requirements Under the Women's Business 
     Center Program.--The Administrator shall provide--
       ``(1) a public announcement of any opportunity to be 
     awarded grants under this section, and such announcement 
     shall include the standards by which such award will be made, 
     including the guidance issued pursuant to subsection 
     (f)(2)(A)(ii);
       ``(2) the opportunity for any applicant for a grant under 
     this section that failed to obtain such a grant a debriefing 
     with the Assistant Administrator to review the reasons for 
     the applicant's failure; and
       ``(3) with respect to any site visit or evaluation of an 
     eligible entity receiving a grant under this section that is 
     carried out by an officer or employee of the Administration 
     (other than the Inspector General), a copy of the site visit 
     report or evaluation, as applicable, within 30 calendar days 
     after the completion of such visit or evaluation.''.
       (g) Continued Funding for Centers.--Section 29(m) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(m)) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:

[[Page H5622]]

       ``(3) Application and approval for continuation grants.--
       ``(A) Solicitation of applications.--The Administrator 
     shall solicit applications and award continuation grants 
     under this subsection for the first fiscal year beginning 
     after the date of enactment of this paragraph, and every 
     third fiscal year thereafter.
       ``(B) Contents of application.--Each eligible entity 
     desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit to the 
     Administrator an application that contains--
       ``(i) a certification that the applicant--

       ``(I) is an eligible entity;
       ``(II) has designated an executive director or program 
     manager to manage the women's business center operated by the 
     applicant; and
       ``(III) as a condition of receiving a grant under this 
     subsection, agrees--

       ``(aa) to receive a site visit as part of the final 
     selection process, at the discretion of the Administrator; 
     and
       ``(bb) to remedy any problem identified pursuant to the 
     site visit under item (aa);
       ``(ii) information demonstrating that the applicant has the 
     ability and resources to meet the needs of the market to be 
     served by the women's business center for which a grant under 
     this subsection is sought, including the ability to obtain 
     the non-Federal contribution required under paragraph (4)(C);
       ``(iii) information relating to assistance to be provided 
     by the women's business center in the geographic area served 
     by the women's business center for which a grant under this 
     subsection is sought;
       ``(iv) information demonstrating that the applicant has 
     worked with resource partners of the Administration and other 
     entities;
       ``(v) a 3-year plan that describes the services provided by 
     the women's business center for which a grant under this 
     subsection is sought--

       ``(I) to serve women who are business owners or potential 
     business owners by conducting training and counseling 
     activities; and
       ``(II) to provide training and services to a representative 
     number of women who are socially or economically 
     disadvantaged; and

       ``(vi) any additional information that the Administrator 
     may reasonably require.
       ``(C) Review and approval of applications for grants.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Administrator--

       ``(I) shall review each application submitted under 
     subparagraph (B), based on the information described in such 
     subparagraph and the criteria set forth under clause (ii) of 
     this subparagraph; and
       ``(II) as part of the final selection process, may conduct 
     a site visit to each women's business center for which a 
     grant under this subsection is sought to evaluate the women's 
     business center using the selection criteria described in 
     clause (ii)(II).

       ``(ii) Selection criteria.--

       ``(I) In general.--The Administrator shall evaluate 
     applicants for grants under this subsection in accordance 
     with selection criteria that are--

       ``(aa) established before the date on which applicants are 
     required to submit the applications;
       ``(bb) stated in terms of relative importance; and
       ``(cc) publicly available and stated in each solicitation 
     for applications for grants under this subsection made by the 
     Administrator.

       ``(II) Required criteria.--The selection criteria for a 
     grant under this subsection shall include--

       ``(aa) the total number of entrepreneurs served by the 
     applicant;
       ``(bb) the total number of new startup companies assisted 
     by the applicant;
       ``(cc) the percentage of clients of the applicant that are 
     socially or economically disadvantaged;
       ``(dd) the percentage of individuals in the community 
     served by the applicant who are socially or economically 
     disadvantaged;
       ``(ee) the successful accreditation of the applicant under 
     the accreditation program developed under subsection (g)(5); 
     and
       ``(ff) any additional criteria that the Administrator may 
     reasonably require.
       ``(iii) Conditions for continued funding.--In determining 
     whether to make a grant under this subsection, the 
     Administrator--

       ``(I) shall consider the results of the most recent 
     evaluation of the women's business center for which a grant 
     under this subsection is sought, and, to a lesser extent, 
     previous evaluations; and
       ``(II) may withhold a grant under this subsection, if the 
     Administrator determines that the applicant has failed to 
     provide the information required to be provided under this 
     paragraph, or the information provided by the applicant is 
     inadequate.

       ``(D) Notification.--Not later than 60 calendar days after 
     the date of each deadline to submit applications under this 
     paragraph, the Administrator shall approve or deny each 
     submitted application and notify the applicant for each such 
     application of the approval or denial.
       ``(E) Record retention.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain a copy 
     of each application submitted under this paragraph for not 
     less than 5 years.
       ``(ii) Paperwork reduction.--The Administrator shall take 
     steps to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
     paperwork burden associated with carrying out clause (i).''; 
     and
       (2) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
       ``(5) Award to previous recipients.--There shall be no 
     limitation on the number of times the Administrator may award 
     a grant to an applicant under this subsection.''.
       (h) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 29 of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ``to award a contract 
     (as a sustainability grant) under subsection (l) or'';
       (2) in subsection (j)(1), by striking ``The 
     Administration'' and inserting ``Not later than November 1 of 
     each year, the Administrator'';
       (3) in subsection (k)--
       (A) by striking paragraphs (1) and (4);
       (B) by inserting before paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
     to the Administration to carry out this section, to remain 
     available until expended, $21,750,000 for each of fiscal 
     years 2018 through 2021.''; and
       (C) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (B) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(B) Exceptions.--Of the amount made available under this 
     subsection for a fiscal year, the following amounts shall be 
     available for selection panel costs, costs associated with 
     maintaining an accreditation program, and post-award 
     conference costs:
       ``(i) For the first fiscal year beginning after the date of 
     the enactment of this subparagraph, 2.65 percent.
       ``(ii) For the second fiscal year beginning after the date 
     of the enactment of this subparagraph and each fiscal year 
     thereafter through fiscal year 2021, 2.5 percent.''; and
       (4) in subsection (m)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``subsection (b) or (l)'' 
     and inserting ``this subsection or subsection (b)''; and
       (B) in paragraph (4)(D), by striking ``or subsection (l)''.
       (i) Effect on Existing Grants.--
       (1) Terms and conditions.--A nonprofit organization 
     receiving a grant under section 29(m) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 656(m)), as in effect on the day before the 
     date of enactment of this Act, shall continue to receive the 
     grant under the terms and conditions in effect for the grant 
     on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, except 
     that the nonprofit organization may not apply for a 
     continuation of the grant under section 29(m)(5) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(m)(5)), as in effect on the day 
     before the date of enactment of this Act.
       (2) Length of continuation grant.--The Administrator of the 
     Small Business Administration may award a grant under section 
     29(m) of the Small Business Act to a nonprofit organization 
     receiving a grant under section 29(m) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 656(m)), as in effect on the day before the 
     date of enactment of this Act, for the period--
       (A) beginning on the day after the last day of the grant 
     agreement under such section 29(m); and
       (B) ending at the end of the third fiscal year beginning 
     after the date of enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1713. MATCHING REQUIREMENTS UNDER WOMEN'S BUSINESS 
                   CENTER PROGRAM.

       Section 29(c) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(c)), 
     as amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at the 
     end the following new paragraph:
       ``(9) Waiver of non-federal share.--
       ``(A) In general.--Upon request by an eligible entity, and 
     in accordance with this paragraph, the Administrator may 
     waive, in whole or in part, the requirement to obtain non-
     Federal funds under this subsection for counseling and 
     training activities of the eligible entity carried out using 
     a grant under this section for a fiscal year. The 
     Administrator may not waive the requirement for an eligible 
     entity to obtain non-Federal funds under this paragraph for 
     more than a total of 2 consecutive fiscal years.
       ``(B) Considerations.--In determining whether to waive the 
     requirement to obtain non-Federal funds under this paragraph, 
     the Administrator shall consider--
       ``(i) the economic conditions affecting the eligible 
     entity;
       ``(ii) the impact a waiver under this paragraph would have 
     on the credibility of the Women's Business Center Program 
     under this section;
       ``(iii) the demonstrated ability of the eligible entity to 
     raise non-Federal funds; and
       ``(iv) the performance of the eligible entity.
       ``(C) Limitation.--The Administrator may not waive the 
     requirement to obtain non-Federal funds under this paragraph 
     if granting the waiver would undermine the credibility of the 
     Women's Business Center Program.
       ``(10) Solicitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, an eligible entity may--
       ``(A) solicit cash and in-kind contributions from private 
     individuals and entities to be used to carry out the 
     activities of the eligible entity under a project conducted 
     under this section; and
       ``(B) use amounts made available by the Administrator under 
     this section for the cost of such solicitation and management 
     of the contributions received.
       ``(11) Excess non-federal dollars.--The amount of non-
     Federal dollars obtained by an eligible entity that is above 
     the amount that is required to be obtained by the eligible 
     entity under this subsection shall not be subject to the 
     requirements of part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal 
     Regulations, or any successor thereto, if such amount of non-
     Federal dollars--
       ``(A) is not used as matching funds for purposes of 
     implementing the Women's Business Center Program; and
       ``(B) was not obtained using funds from the Women's 
     Business Center Program.''.

                       Subtitle C--SCORE Program

     SEC. 1721. SCORE REAUTHORIZATION.

       Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) 
     is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (f); and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) SCORE Program.--There are authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Administrator to carry

[[Page H5623]]

     out the SCORE program authorized by section 8(b)(1) such sums 
     as may be necessary for the Administrator to make grants or 
     enter into cooperative agreements in a total amount that does 
     not exceed $10,500,000 in each of fiscal years 2018 and 
     2019.''.

     SEC. 1722. SCORE PROGRAM.

       Section 8 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B), by striking ``a Service Corps 
     of Retired Executives (SCORE)'' and inserting ``the SCORE 
     program described in subsection (c)''; and
       (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(c) SCORE Program.--
       ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection:
       ``(A) SCORE association.--The term `SCORE Association' 
     means the Service Corps of Retired Executives Association or 
     any successor or other organization that receives a grant 
     from the Administrator to operate the SCORE program under 
     paragraph (2)(A).
       ``(B) SCORE program.--The term `SCORE program' means the 
     SCORE program authorized by subsection (b)(1)(B).
       ``(2) Management and volunteers.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall provide a grant 
     to the SCORE Association to manage the SCORE program.
       ``(B) Volunteers.--A volunteer participating in the SCORE 
     program shall--
       ``(i) based on the business experience and knowledge of the 
     volunteer--

       ``(I) provide at no cost to individuals who own, or aspire 
     to own, small business concerns personal counseling, 
     mentoring, and coaching relating to the process of starting, 
     expanding, managing, buying, and selling a business; and
       ``(II) facilitate low-cost educational workshops for 
     individuals who own, or aspire to own, small business 
     concerns; and

       ``(ii) as appropriate, use tools, resources, and expertise 
     of other organizations to carry out the SCORE program.
       ``(3) Plans and goals.--The Administrator, in consultation 
     with the SCORE Association, shall ensure that the SCORE 
     program and each chapter of the SCORE program develop and 
     implement plans and goals to more effectively and efficiently 
     provide services to individuals in rural areas, economically 
     disadvantaged communities, and other traditionally 
     underserved communities, including plans for electronic 
     initiatives, web-based initiatives, chapter expansion, 
     partnerships, and the development of new skills by volunteers 
     participating in the SCORE program.
       ``(4) Annual report.--The SCORE Association shall submit to 
     the Administrator an annual report that contains--
       ``(A) the number of individuals counseled or trained under 
     the SCORE program;
       ``(B) the number of hours of counseling provided under the 
     SCORE program; and
       ``(C) to the extent possible--
       ``(i) the number of small business concerns formed with 
     assistance from the SCORE program;
       ``(ii) the number of small business concerns expanded with 
     assistance from the SCORE program; and
       ``(iii) the number of jobs created with assistance from the 
     SCORE program.
       ``(5) Privacy requirements.--
       ``(A) In general.--Neither the Administrator nor the SCORE 
     Association may disclose the name, address, or telephone 
     number of any individual or small business concern receiving 
     assistance from the SCORE Association without the consent of 
     such individual or small business concern, unless--
       ``(i) the Administrator is ordered to make such a 
     disclosure by a court in any civil or criminal enforcement 
     action initiated by a Federal or State agency; or
       ``(ii) the Administrator determines such a disclosure to be 
     necessary for the purpose of conducting a financial audit of 
     the SCORE program, in which case disclosure shall be limited 
     to the information necessary for the audit.
       ``(B) Administrator use of information.--This paragraph 
     shall not--
       ``(i) restrict the access of the Administrator to program 
     activity data; or
       ``(ii) prevent the Administrator from using client 
     information to conduct client surveys.
       ``(C) Standards.--
       ``(i) In general.--The Administrator shall, after the 
     opportunity for notice and comment, establish standards for--

       ``(I) disclosures with respect to financial audits under 
     subparagraph (A)(ii); and
       ``(II) conducting client surveys, including standards for 
     oversight of the surveys and for dissemination and use of 
     client information.

       ``(ii) Maximum privacy protection.--The standards issued 
     under this subparagraph shall, to the extent practicable, 
     provide for the maximum amount of privacy protection.''.

     SEC. 1723. ONLINE COMPONENT.

       (a) In General.--Section 8(c) of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 637(c)), as amended by this Act, is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(6) Online component.--In carrying out this subsection, 
     the SCORE Association shall make use of online counseling, 
     including by developing and implementing webinars and an 
     electronic mentoring platform to expand access to services 
     provided under this subsection and to further support 
     entrepreneurs.''.
       (b) Online Component Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2018, the 
     SCORE Association shall issue a report to the Committee on 
     Small Business of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
     Senate on the effectiveness of the electronic mentoring and 
     webinars required as part of the SCORE program, including--
       (A) how the SCORE Association determines electronic 
     mentoring and webinar needs, develops training for electronic 
     mentoring, establishes webinar curricula, and evaluates 
     webinar and electronic mentoring results;
       (B) describing the internal controls that are used and a 
     summary of the topics covered by the webinars; and
       (C) performance metrics, including the number of small 
     business concerns counseled by, the number of small business 
     concerns created by, the number of jobs created and retained 
     by, and the funding amounts directed towards such online 
     counseling and webinars.
       (2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
     terms ``SCORE Association'' and ``SCORE program'' have the 
     meaning given those terms, respectively, under section 
     8(c)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(c)(1)).

     SEC. 1724. STUDY AND REPORT ON THE FUTURE ROLE OF THE SCORE 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Study.--The SCORE Association shall carry out a study 
     on the future role of the SCORE program and develop a 
     strategic plan for how the SCORE program will evolve to meet 
     the needs of small business concerns over the course of the 5 
     years following the date of enactment of this Act, with 
     markers and specific objectives for the first, third, and 
     final year of the 5-year period.
       (b) Report.--Not later than the end of the 6-month period 
     beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the SCORE 
     Association shall submit a report to the Committee on Small 
     Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
     Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate 
     containing--
       (1) all findings and determination made in carrying out the 
     study required under subsection (a);
       (2) the strategic plan developed under subsection (a);
       (3) an explanation of how the SCORE Association plans to 
     achieve the strategic plan, assuming both stagnant and 
     increased funding levels.
       (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the terms 
     ``SCORE Association'' and ``SCORE program'' have the meaning 
     given those terms, respectively, under section 8(c)(1) of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(c)(1)).

     SEC. 1725. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

       (a) Small Business Act.--The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     631 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 7 (15 U.S.C. 636)--
       (A) in subsection (b)(12)(A), by striking ``Service Corps 
     of Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE program''; and
       (B) in subsection (m)(3)(A)(i)(VIII), by striking ``Service 
     Corps of Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE 
     program'';
       (2) in section 22 (15 U.S.C. 649)--
       (A) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Service Corps of 
     Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE program''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Service Corps of 
     Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE program''; and
       (B) in subsection (c)(12), by striking ``Service Corps of 
     Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE program''.
       (b) Other Laws.--
       (1) Children's health insurance program reauthorization act 
     of 2009.--Section 621 of the Children's Health Insurance 
     Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (15 U.S.C. 657p) is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (4) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(4) the term `SCORE program' means the SCORE program 
     authorized by section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B));''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(4)(A)(iv), by striking ``Service 
     Corps of Retired Executives'' and inserting ``SCORE 
     program''.
       (2) Energy policy and conservation act.--Section 
     337(d)(2)(A) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
     U.S.C. 6307(d)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``Service Corps 
     of Retired Executives (SCORE)'' and inserting ``SCORE 
     program''.

      Subtitle D--Small Business Development Centers Improvements

     SEC. 1731. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating section 47 as section 48; and
       (2) by inserting after section 46 the following new 
     section:

     ``SEC. 47. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT 
                   PROGRAMS.

       ``(a) Expanded Support for Entrepreneurs.--
       ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, the Administrator shall only use the programs authorized 
     in sections 7(j), 7(m), 8(a), 8(b)(1), 21, 22, 29, and 32 of 
     this Act, and sections 358 and 389 of the Small Business 
     Investment Act of 1958 to deliver entrepreneurial development 
     services, entrepreneurial education, support for the 
     development and maintenance of clusters, or business 
     training.
       ``(2) Exception.--This section shall not apply to services 
     provided to assist small business concerns owned by an Indian 
     tribe (as such term is defined in section 8(a)(13)).
       ``(b) Annual Report.--Beginning on the first December 1 
     after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and 
     annually thereafter, the Administrator shall report to the 
     Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives 
     and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
     the Senate on all entrepreneurial development activities 
     undertaken in the current fiscal year. This report shall 
     include--
       ``(1) a description and operating details for each 
     activity;

[[Page H5624]]

       ``(2) operating circulars, manuals, and standard operating 
     procedures for each activity;
       ``(3) a description of the process used to award grants 
     under each activity;
       ``(4) a list of all awardees, contractors, and vendors 
     (including organization name and location) and the amount of 
     awards for the current fiscal year for each activity;
       ``(5) the amount of funding obligated for the current 
     fiscal year for each activity; and
       ``(6) the names and titles for those individuals 
     responsible for each activity.''.

     SEC. 1732. MARKETING OF SERVICES.

       Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(o) No Prohibition of Marketing of Services.--The 
     Administrator may not prohibit applicants receiving grants 
     under this section from marketing and advertising their 
     services to individuals and small business concerns.''.

     SEC. 1733. DATA COLLECTION.

       (a) In General.--Section 21(a)(3)(A) of the Small Business 
     Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``as provided in this section and'' and 
     inserting ``as provided in this section,''; and
       (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, and (iv) governing data collection activities 
     related to applicants receiving grants under this section''.
       (b) Annual Report on Data Collection.--Section 21 of the 
     Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648), as amended by this Act, 
     is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(p) Annual Report on Data Collection.--The Administrator 
     shall report annually to the Committee on Small Business of 
     the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small 
     Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate on any data 
     collection activities related to the Small Business 
     Development Center Program.''.
       (c) Working Group To Improve Data Collection.--
       (1) Establishment and study.--The Administrator of the 
     Small Business Administration shall establish a group to be 
     known as the ``Data Collection Working Group'' consisting of 
     members from entrepreneurial development grant recipient 
     associations and organizations and Administration officials, 
     to carry out a study to determine the best way to capture 
     data collection and create or revise existing systems 
     dedicated to data collection.
       (2) Report.--Not later than the end of the 180-day period 
     beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Data 
     Collection Working Group shall submit a report to the 
     Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives 
     and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
     the Senate containing the findings and determinations made in 
     carrying out the study required under paragraph (1), 
     including--
       (A) recommendations for revising existing data collection 
     practices; and
       (B) a proposed plan for the Administrator of the Small 
     Business Administration to implement such recommendations.

     SEC. 1734. FEES FROM PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND COSPONSORSHIPS.

       Section 21(a)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     648(a)(3)(C)), as amended by this Act, is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) Fees From Private Partnerships and Cosponsorships.--
     Participation in private partnerships and cosponsorships with 
     the Administration shall not limit small business development 
     centers from collecting fees or other income related to the 
     operation of such private partnerships and cosponsorships.''.

     SEC. 1735. EQUITY FOR SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

       Subclause (I) of section 21(a)(4)(C)(v) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(4)(C)(v)(I)) is amended to 
     read as follows:

       ``(I) In general.--Of the amounts made available in any 
     fiscal year to carry out this section, not more than $600,000 
     may be used by the Administration to pay expenses described 
     under subparagraphs (B) through (D) of section 20(a)(1).''.

     SEC. 1736. CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENTS.

       Section 21(a)(7)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     648(a)(7)(A)) is amended by inserting after ``under this 
     section'' the following: ``to any State, local, or Federal 
     agency, or to any third party''.

     SEC. 1737. LIMITATION ON AWARD OF GRANTS TO SMALL BUSINESS 
                   DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

       (a) In General.--Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 
     U.S.C. 648), as amended by this Act, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``any women's 
     business center operating pursuant to section 29,'';
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(q) Limitation on Award of Grants.--Except for not-for-
     profit institutions of higher education, and notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, the Administrator may not award 
     grants (including contracts and cooperative agreements) under 
     this section to any entity other than those that received 
     grants (including contracts and cooperative agreements) under 
     this section prior to the date of the enactment of this 
     subsection, and that seek to renew such grants (including 
     contracts and cooperative agreements) after such date.''.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--The amendments made by this 
     section may not be construed as prohibiting a women's 
     business center from receiving a subgrant from an entity 
     receiving a grant under section 21 of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 648).

                       Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

     SEC. 1741. MODIFICATION OF PAST PERFORMANCE PILOT PROGRAM TO 
                   INCLUDE CONSIDERATION OF PAST PERFORMANCE WITH 
                   ALLIES OF THE UNITED STATES.

       (a) In General.--Section 8(d)(17) of the Small Business Act 
     (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(17)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (G)--
       (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``and, set forth 
     separately, the number of small business exporters,'' after 
     ``small business concerns''; and
       (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, set forth separately 
     by applications from small business concerns and from small 
     business exporters,'' after ``applications''; and
       (2) by amending subparagraph (H) to read as follows:
       ``(H) Definitions.--In this paragraph--
       ``(i) the term `appropriate official' means--
       ``(I) a commercial market representative;
       ``(II) another individual designated by the senior official 
     appointed by the Administrator with responsibilities under 
     sections 8, 15, 31, and 36; or
       ``(III) the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
     Utilization of a Federal agency, if the head of the Federal 
     agency and the Administrator agree;
       ``(ii) the term `defense item' has the meaning given that 
     term in section 38(j)(4)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
     (22 U.S.C. 2778(j)(4)(A));
       ``(iii) the term `major non-NATO ally' means a country 
     designated as a major non-NATO ally under section 517 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321k);
       ``(iv) the term `past performance' includes performance of 
     a contract for a sale of defense items (under section 38 of 
     the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778)) to the 
     government of a member nation of North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization, the government of a major non-NATO ally, or the 
     government of a country with which the United States has a 
     defense cooperation agreement (as certified by the Secretary 
     of State); and
       ``(v) the term `small business exporter' means a small 
     business concern that exports defense items under section 38 
     of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) to the 
     government of a member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization, the government of a major non-NATO ally, or the 
     government of a country with which the United States has a 
     defense cooperation agreement (as certified by the Secretary 
     of State).''.
       (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 8(d)(17)(A) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(17)(A)) is amended by striking 
     ``paragraph 13(A)'' and inserting ``paragraph (13)(A)''.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

     SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

       This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018''.

     SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED 
                   TO BE SPECIFIED BY LAW.

       (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except 
     as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained 
     in titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX for military 
     construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
     projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
     authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on 
     the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2020; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for military construction for fiscal year 2021.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     authorizations for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
     appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have 
     been obligated before the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2020; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for fiscal year 2021 for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program.

     SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect 
     on the later of--
       (1) October 1, 2017; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

     SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

[[Page H5625]]



                     Army: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                   Installation            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................  Fort Rucker...........       $38,000,000
Arizona.......................  Davis-Monthan Air            $22,000,000
                                 Force Base...........
                                Fort Huachuca.........       $30,000,000
California....................  Fort Irwin............        $3,000,000
Colorado......................  Fort Carson...........       $29,300,000
Florida.......................  Eglin Air Force Base..       $18,000,000
Georgia.......................  Fort Benning..........       $38,800,000
                                Fort Gordon...........       $51,500,000
Indiana.......................  Crane Army Ammunition        $24,000,000
                                 Plant................
New York......................  U.S. Military Academy.       $22,000,000
South Carolina................  Fort Jackson..........       $60,000,000
                                Shaw Air Force Base...       $25,000,000
Texas.........................  Camp Bullis...........       $13,600,000
                                Fort Hood.............       $70,000,000
Virginia......................  Joint Base Langley-          $34,000,000
                                 Eustis...............
                                Joint Base Myer-             $20,000,000
                                 Henderson............
Washington....................  Joint Base Lewis-            $66,000,000
                                 McChord..............
                                Yakima................       $19,500,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out the military construction project for 
     the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
     in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country                   Installation             Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Germany.....................   Stuttgart..............      $40,000,000
                                Weisbaden..............      $43,000,000
Korea........................  Kunsan Air Base.........      $53,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2104(a) and available for military family housing 
     functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
     the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family 
     housing units (including land acquisition and supporting 
     facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
     of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following 
     table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                      Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.................................   Fort Gordon..............  Family Housing New              $6,100,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Germany.................................  South Camp Vilseck........  Family Housing New             $22,445,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Kwajalein...............................  Kwajalein Atoll...........  Family Housing Replacement     $31,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Massachusetts...........................  Natick....................  Family Housing Replacement     $21,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a) and available for military family housing functions 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
     Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and 
     engineering services and construction design activities with 
     respect to the construction or improvement of family housing 
     units in an amount not to exceed $33,559,000.

     SEC. 2103. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2104(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may improve 
     existing military family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $34,156,000.

     SEC. 2104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Army as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2101 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2105. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2014 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 
     127 Stat. 986) for Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, for 
     construction of an airfield operations complex, the Secretary 
     of the Army may construct standby generator capacity of 1,000 
     kilowatts.

     SEC. 2106. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2015 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 
     128 Stat. 3670) for Fort Shafter, Hawaii, for construction of 
     a command and control facility, the Secretary of

[[Page H5626]]

     the Army may construct 15 megawatts of redundant power 
     generation for a total project amount of $370,000,000.

     SEC. 2107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECT.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2101 of that Act (127 Stat. 986), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                  Army: Extension of 2014 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Installation or
          State or Country                  Location                   Project                    Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan..............................  Kyogamisaki...........  Company Operations Complex              $33,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2108. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2101 of that Act (128 Stat. 3670), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Installation or
           State/Country                    Location                   Project                    Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California.........................  Military Ocean          Access Control Point......               $9,900,000
                                      Terminal Concord.....
 Hawaii............................  Fort Shafter..........  Command and Control                    $370,000,000
                                                              Facility (SCIF)..........
Japan..............................  Kadena Air Base.......  Missile Magazine..........              $10,600,000
Texas..............................  Fort Hood.............  Simulation Center.........              $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2109. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL 
                   YEAR 2000, 2005, 2006, AND 2007 PROJECTS.

       (a) Project Authorization.--In connection with the 
     authorizations contained in the tables in section 2101(a) of 
     the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2000 (division B of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 825), 
     section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (division B of Public Law 108-375; 
     118 Stat. 2101), section 2101(a) of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (division B of Public 
     Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3485), and section 2101(a) of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 
     (division B of Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2445) for Fort 
     Irwin, California, for Land Acquisition - National Training 
     Center, Phases 1 through 4, the Secretary of the Army may 
     carry out military construction projects to complete the land 
     acquisitions within the initial scope of the projects.
       (b) Congressional Notification.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall provide information in accordance with section 2851(c) 
     of title 10, United States Code, regarding the projects 
     described in subsection (a).

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

     SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Yuma............................................     $36,358,000
California....................................  Barstow.........................................     $36,539,000
                                                Camp Pendleton..................................     $61,139,000
                                                Lemoore.........................................     $60,828,000
                                                Twentynine Palms................................     $55,099,000
                                                Miramar.........................................     $47,600,000
                                                Coronado........................................     $36,000,000
District of Columbia..........................  NSA Washington..................................     $14,810,000
Florida.......................................  Mayport.........................................     $84,818,000
Georgia.......................................  Albany..........................................     $43,300,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $284,679,000
Hawaii........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................     $73,200,000
                                                Wahiawa.........................................     $65,864,000
Maine.........................................  Kittery.........................................     $61,692,000
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune....................................    $103,767,000
                                                Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station...........     $15,671,000
Virginia......................................  Dam Neck........................................     $29,262,000
                                                Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story.....      $2,596,000
                                                Portsmouth......................................     $72,990,000
                                                Yorktown........................................     $36,358,000
Washington....................................  Indian Island...................................     $44,440,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out

[[Page H5627]]

     military construction projects for the installation or 
     location outside the United States, and in the amounts, set 
     forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greece........................................  Souda Bay.......................................     $22,045,000
 Japan........................................  Iwakuni.........................................     $21,860,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2204(a) and available for military family housing 
     functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
     the Secretary of the Navy may construct or acquire family 
     housing units (including land acquisition and supporting 
     facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
     of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following 
     table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Country                         Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island..........................  SW Asia...................  Construct On-Base GFOQ....      $2,138,000
Mariana Islands.........................  Guam......................  Replace Andersen Housing       $40,875,000
                                                                       PH II....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a) and available for military family housing functions 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
     Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and 
     engineering services and construction design activities with 
     respect to the construction or improvement of family housing 
     units in an amount not to exceed $4,418,000.

     SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may improve 
     existing military family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $36,251,000.

     SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Navy, as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2201 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS FOR CERTAIN FISCAL 
                   YEAR 2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2201 of that Act (127 Stat. 989) and 
     extended by section 2207 of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public 
     Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2694), shall remain in effect until 
     October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
     authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
     2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illinois................................   Great Lakes..............  Unaccompanied Housing.....     $35,851,000
Nevada..................................  Fallon....................  Wastewater Treatment Plant     $11,334,000
Virginia................................  Quantico..................  Fuller Road Improvements..      $9,013,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2206. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2201 of that Act (128 Stat. 3675), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
District of Columbia....................   NSA Washington...........  Electronics Science and        $31,735,000
                                                                       Technology Lab...........
Maryland................................  Indian Head...............  Advanced Energetics            $15,346,000
                                                                       Research Lab Complex Ph 2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

     SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

[[Page H5628]]



                   Air Force: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            State                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.......................  Eielson Air Force Base       $168,900,000
California...................   Travis Air Force Base       $122,500,000
Colorado.....................   Buckley Air Force            $38,000,000
                                Base.
                               Fort Carson...........        $13,000,000
                               U.S. Air Force Academy        $30,000,000
Florida......................   Eglin Air Force Base.        $90,700,000
                               MacDill Air Force Base         $8,100,000
                               Tyndall Air Force Base        $17,000,000
Georgia......................  Robins Air Force Base.         $9,800,000
Kansas.......................   McConnell Air Force          $17,500,000
                                Base.
Maryland.....................  Joint Base Andrews....       $271,500,000
Nevada.......................  Nellis Air Force Base.        $61,000,000
New Mexico...................  Cannon Air Force Base.        $42,000,000
                               Holloman Air Force             $4,250,000
                                Base.
                               Kirtland Air Force             $9,300,000
                                Base.
New Jersey...................   McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst       $146,500,000
North Dakota.................   Minot Air Force Base.        $27,000,000
Oklahoma.....................   Altus Air Force Base.         $4,900,000
Texas........................  Joint Base San Antonio       $156,630,000
Utah.........................  Hill Air Force Base...        $28,000,000
Wyoming......................  F.E. Warren Air Force         $62,000,000
                                Base.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire 
     real property and carry out military construction projects 
     for the installation or location outside the United States, 
     and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia......................................   Darwin.....................................        $76,000,000
United Kingdom.................................  RAF Fairford................................        $45,650,000
                                                 RAF Lakenheath..............................       $136,992,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military 
     family housing functions as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out 
     architectural and engineering services and construction 
     design activities with respect to the construction or 
     improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $4,445,000.

     SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for 
     military family housing functions as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
     improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
     not to exceed $80,617,000.

     SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of the Air Force, as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2301 may not exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECTS.

       (a) Hanscom Air Force Base.--In the case of the 
     authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of 
     the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2696) for 
     Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for construction of a 
     gate complex at the installation, the Secretary of the Air 
     Force may construct a visitor control center of 187 square 
     meters, a traffic check house of 294 square meters, and an 
     emergency power generator system and transfer switch 
     consistent with the Air Force's construction guidelines.
       (b) Mariana Islands.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2697) for acquiring 142 
     hectares of land at an unspecified location in the Mariana 
     Islands, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire 142 
     hectares of land on Tinian in the Northern Mariana Islands 
     for a cost of $21,900,000.
       (c) Chabelley Airfield.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2902 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2743) for Chabelley 
     Airfield, Djibouti, for construction of a parking apron and 
     taxiway at that location, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
     construct 20,490 square meters of taxiway and apron, 8,230 
     square meters of paved shoulders, 10,650 square meters of 
     hangar pads, and 3,900 square meters of cargo apron.
       (d) Scott Air Force Base.--The table in section 4601 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2877) is amended 
     in the item relating to Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, by 
     striking ``Consolidated Corrosion Facility add/alter.'' in 
     the project title column and inserting ``Consolidated 
     Communication Facility add/alter.''.

     SEC. 2306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2301 of that Act (128 Stat. 3679), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

[[Page H5629]]



                               Air Force: Extension of 2015 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                          Installation                   Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska..................................  Clear Air Force Station...  Emergency Power Plant Fuel     $11,500,000
                                                                       Storage..................
Oklahoma................................  Tinker Air Force Base.....  KC-46 Two-Bay Maintenance      $63,000,000
                                                                       Hangar...................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

     SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for military construction projects 
     inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Camp Pendleton.............................        $43,642,000
                                                  Coronado...................................       $258,735,000
Colorado........................................  Schriever Air Force Base...................        $10,200,000
Florida.........................................  Eglin Air Force Base.......................         $9,100,000
                                                  Hurlburt Field.............................        $46,400,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Gordon................................        $10,350,000
Guam............................................  Andersen Air Force Base....................        $23,900,000
Hawaii..........................................  Kunia......................................         $5,000,000
Missouri........................................  Fort Leonard Wood..........................       $381,300,000
                                                  St. Louis..................................       $812,000,000
 New Mexico.....................................  Cannon Air Force Base......................         $8,228,000
 North Carolina.................................  Camp Lejeune...............................        $90,039,000
                                                  Fort Bragg.................................        $57,778,000
                                                  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.............        $20,000,000
South Carolina..................................  Shaw Air Force Base........................        $22,900,000
Utah............................................  Hill Air Force Base........................        $20,000,000
Virginia........................................  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story        $23,000,000
                                                  Norfolk....................................        $18,500,000
                                                  Pentagon...................................        $50,100,000
                                                  Portsmouth.................................        $22,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations............        $64,364,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for military construction projects 
     outside the United States as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations or locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.........................................  Spangdahlem Air Base.......................        $79,141,000
                                                  Stuttgart..................................        $46,609,000
Greece..........................................  Souda Bay..................................        $18,100,000
Italy...........................................  Vicenza....................................        $62,406,000
Japan...........................................   Iwakuni...................................        $30,800,000
                                                  Kadena Air Base............................        $27,573,000
                                                  Okinawa....................................        $11,900,000
                                                  Sasebo.....................................        $45,600,000
                                                  Torii Commo Station........................        $25,323,000
Puerto Rico.....................................   Punta Borinquen...........................        $61,071,000
United Kingdom..................................  Menwith Hill Station.......................        $11,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCY AND CONSERVATION 
                   PROJECTS.

       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for energy resiliency and conservation 
     projects inside the United States as specified in the funding 
     table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out 
     energy resiliency and conservation projects under chapter 173 
     of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or 
     locations inside the United States, and the amounts set forth 
     in the table:

[[Page H5630]]



                      Energy Resiliency and Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Colorado........................................  Schriever Air Force Base...................        $15,260,000
Guam............................................  Andersen Air Force Base....................         $5,880,000
                                                  NAVBASE Guam...............................         $6,920,000
Hawaii..........................................   MCBH Kaneohe Bay..........................         $6,185,000
Illinois........................................  MTC Marseilles.............................         $3,000,000
Maryland........................................   NSA South Potomac-Indian Head.............        $10,790,000
Missouri........................................   Fort Leonard Wood.........................         $5,300,000
Montana.........................................  Malmstrom AFB..............................         $6,086,000
North Carolina..................................  Fort Bragg.................................         $3,000,000
                                                  Lejeune/New River..........................         $9,750,000
Utah............................................  Tooele Army Depot..........................         $6,400,000
                                                  Dugway Proving Ground......................         $8,700,000
                                                  Hill Air Force Base........................         $8,467,000
Wyoming.........................................  F.E. Warren................................         $4,500,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................        $12,232,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2403(a) and available for energy resiliency and conservation 
     projects outside the United States as specified in the 
     funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
     carry out energy resiliency and conservation projects under 
     chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
     installations or locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Energy Resiliency and Conservation Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Honduras........................................   Soto Cano Air Base........................        $12,600,000
Italy...........................................   NSA Naples................................         $2,700,000
Japan...........................................  CFA Yokosuka...............................         $8,530,000
Korea...........................................  Osan Air Base..............................        $13,700,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning 
     after September 30, 2017, for military construction, land 
     acquisition, and military family housing functions of the 
     Department of Defense (other than the military departments), 
     as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2401 of this Act may not exceed the 
     total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
     (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

     SEC. 2404. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization in the table in section 
     2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2700) for 
     Kaiserslautern, Germany, for construction of the Sembach 
     Elementary/Middle School Replacement, the Secretary of 
     Defense may construct an elementary school.

     SEC. 2405. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
     (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2401 of that Act (127 Stat. 995) and 
     extended by section 2406 of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public 
     Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2702), shall remain in effect until 
     October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
     authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
     2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United Kingdom.........................  Royal Air Force Lakenheath.  Lakenheath Middle/High         $69,638,000
                                                                       School Replacement......
Virginia...............................  Marine Corps Base Quantico.  Quantico Middle/High           $40,586,000
                                                                       School Replacement......
                                         Pentagon...................  PFPA Support Operations        $14,800,000
                                                                       Center..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2406. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2401 of that Act (128 Stat. 3681), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

[[Page H5631]]



                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia..............................  Geraldton..................  Combined Communications         $9,600,000
                                                                       Gateway Geraldton.......
Belgium................................  Brussels...................  Brussels Elementary/High       $41,626,000
                                                                       School Replacement......
Japan..................................  Okinawa....................  Kubasaki High School           $99,420,000
                                                                       Replacement/Renovation..
                                         Commander Fleet Activities   E.J. King High School          $37,681,000
                                          Sasebo....................   Replacement/Renovation..
Mississippi............................   Stennis...................  SOF Land Acquisition           $17,224,000
                                                                       Western Maneuver Area...
New Mexico.............................  Cannon Air Force Base......  SOF Squadron Operations        $23,333,000
                                                                       Facility (STS)..........
Virginia...............................  Defense Distribution Depot   Replace Access Control          $5,700,000
                                          Richmond..................   Point...................
                                         Joint Base Langley-Eustis..  Hospital Addition/Central      $41,200,000
                                                                       Utility Plant
                                                                       Replacement.............
                                         Pentagon...................  Redundant Chilled Water        $15,100,000
                                                                       Loop....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

     SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
     Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United 
     States Code, in an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount 
     authorized to be appropriated for this purpose in section 
     2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization as a result of construction previously financed 
     by the United States.

     SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for contributions 
     by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, 
     United States Code, for the share of the United States of the 
     cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Security Investment Program authorized by section 2501 as 
     specified in the funding table in section 4601.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

     SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for 
     required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may 
     accept military construction projects for the installations 
     or locations, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
     table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       Installation or
            Country                   Component           Location              Project              Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea..........................  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Unaccompanied               $76,000,000
                                                                          Enlisted Personnel
                                                                          Housing, Phase 1...
                                 Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Type I Aircraft             $10,000,000
                                                                          Parking Apron......
                                 Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Construct Airfield           $6,500,000
                                                                          Damage Repair
                                                                          Warehouse..........
                                 Air Force.........  Osan Air Base.....  Main Gate Entry             $13,000,000
                                                                          Control Facilities.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2512. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECTS.

       (a) Camp Humphreys.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2704) for Camp Humphreys, 
     Republic of Korea, for construction of the 8th Army 
     Correctional Facility, the Secretary of Defense may construct 
     a level 1 correctional facility of 26,000 square feet and a 
     utility and tool storage building of 400 square feet.
       (b) K-16 Air Base.--In the case of the authorization 
     contained in the table in section 2511 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2704) for the K-16 Air 
     Base, Republic of Korea, for renovation of the Special 
     Operations Forces (SOF) Operations Facility, B-606, the 
     Secretary of Defense may renovate an operations 
     administration area of 5,500 square meters.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorizations of Appropriations

     SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND 
                   LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Army National Guard locations inside the United States, and 
     in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware........................................   New Castle................................        $36,000,000
Idaho...........................................  Orchard Training Area......................        $22,000,000
                                                  MTC Gowen..................................         $9,000,000
Maine...........................................   Presque Isle..............................        $17,500,000
Maryland........................................  Sykesville.................................        $19,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Arden Hills................................        $39,000,000

[[Page H5632]]

 
Missouri........................................  Springfield................................        $32,000,000
New Mexico......................................   Las Cruces................................         $8,600,000
Virginia........................................   Fort Pickett..............................         $4,550,000
                                                  Fort Belvoir...............................        $15,000,000
Washington......................................  Tumwater...................................        $31,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Army Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the 
     amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Fallbrook..................................        $36,000,000
Washington......................................   Lewis-McChord.............................        $30,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................   Fort McCoy................................        $13,000,000
Puerto Rico.....................................  Fort Buchanan..............................        $26,000,000
                                                  Aguadilla..................................        $12,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
                   CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations inside the 
     United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
     table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................   Lemoore...................................        $17,330,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Gordon................................        $17,797,000
New Jersey......................................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst...........        $11,573,000
Texas...........................................   Fort Worth................................        $12,637,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND 
                   LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  March Air Force Base.......................        $15,000,000
Colorado........................................  Peterson Air Force Base....................         $8,000,000
Connecticut.....................................  Bradley IAP................................         $7,000,000
Indiana.........................................  Fort Wayne International Airport...........         $1,900,000
                                                  Hulman Regional Airport....................         $8,000,000
Kentucky........................................   Louisville IAP............................         $9,000,000
Mississippi.....................................   Jackson International Airport.............         $8,000,000
Missouri........................................   Rosecrans Memorial Airport................        $10,000,000
New York........................................   Hancock Field.............................         $6,800,000
Ohio............................................  Toledo Express Airport.....................        $15,000,000
                                                  Rickenbacker International Airport.........         $8,000,000
Oklahoma........................................  Tulsa International Airport................         $8,000,000
Oregon..........................................   Klamath Falls IAP.........................        $18,500,000
South Dakota....................................  Joe Foss Field.............................        $12,000,000
Tennessee.......................................  McGhee-Tyson Airport.......................        $25,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................   Dane County Regional/Airport Truax Field..         $8,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National 
     Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:

[[Page H5633]]



                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.........................................   Patrick Air Force Base....................        $25,000,000
Georgia.........................................   Robins Air Force Base.....................        $32,000,000
Guam............................................  Joint Region Marianas......................         $5,200,000
 Hawaii.........................................   Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam............         $5,500,000
Massachusetts...................................   Westover ARB..............................        $10,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Minneapolis-St Paul IAP....................         $9,000,000
North Carolina..................................  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.............         $6,400,000
Texas...........................................  NAS JRB Fort Worth.........................         $3,100,000
Utah............................................  Hill Air Force Base........................         $3,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD 
                   AND RESERVE.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the costs of 
     acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and 
     construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, 
     and for contributions therefor, under chapter 1803 of title 
     10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of 
     land for those facilities), as specified in the funding table 
     in section 4601.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

     SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2015 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 
     Stat. 3688) for Starkville, Mississippi, for construction of 
     an Army Reserve Center at that location, the Secretary of the 
     Army may acquire approximately fifteen acres (653,400 square 
     feet) of land.

     SEC. 2612. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2014 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
     Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set 
     forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 
     2602, 2604, and 2605 of that Act (127 Stat. 1001, 1002), 
     shall remain in effect until October 1, 2018 or the date of 
     the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                   Installation or Location             Project                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Florida..............................  Homestead ARB............  Entry Control Complex.......       $9,800,000
Maryland..............................   Fort Meade..............  175th Network Warfare              $4,000,000
                                                                    Squadron Facility.
New York..............................  Bullville................  Army Reserve Center.........      $14,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2613. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of 
     Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set 
     forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 
     2602 and 2604 of that Act (128 Stat. 3688, 3689), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018 or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                            Location                     Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mississippi...........................   Starkville...............  Army Reserve Center.......       $9,300,000
New Hampshire..........................   Pease....................  KC-46A ADAL Airfield             $7,100,000
                                                                      Pavements and Hydrant
                                                                      Systems.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

     SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE 
                   REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED 
                   THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE 
                   ACCOUNT.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for base 
     realignment and closure activities, including real property 
     acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized 
     by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part 
     A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
     and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure 
     Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended 
     by section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 
     126 Stat. 2140)), as specified in the funding table in 
     section 4601.

     SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE 
                   REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

       Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an 
     additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

     SEC. 2801. ELIMINATION OF WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIREMENT FOR 
                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND RELIANCE 
                   ON ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF NOTIFICATIONS AND 
                   REPORTS.

       (a) Military Construction Authorities.--Subchapter I of 
     chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 2803(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``seven-day period'' and inserting ``five-
     day period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (2) Section 2804(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``14-day period'' and inserting ``seven-day 
     period; and''
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2805 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)(2)--
       (i) by striking ``in writing'';
       (ii) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (iii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''; and
       (B) in subsection (d)(3)--
       (i) by striking ``in writing'';
       (ii) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (iii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.

[[Page H5634]]

       (4) Section 2806(c) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``of Defense'' after 
     ``The Secretary''; and
       (B) by striking ``(A)'' and all that follows through the 
     end of the paragraph and inserting the following: ``, only 
     after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on 
     which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress notice of the increase, including the reasons for 
     the increase and the source of the funds to be used for the 
     increase.''.
       (5) Section 2807 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (b)--
       (i) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''; and
       (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``(1)'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subsection and inserting the 
     following: ``only after the end of the 14-day period 
     beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress notice of the need for 
     the increase, including the source of funds to be used for 
     the increase.''.
       (6) Section 2808(b) is amended by inserting after 
     ``notify'' the following: ``, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title,''.
       (7) Section 2809 is amended by striking subsection (f) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may enter into a contract under this section only 
     after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on 
     which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress a justification of the need for the facility 
     covered by the proposed contract, including an economic 
     analysis (based upon accepted life cycle costing procedures) 
     which demonstrates that the proposed contract is cost 
     effective when compared with alternative means of furnishing 
     the same facility.''.
       (8) Section 2811(d) is amended by inserting after 
     ``submit'' the following: ``, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title,''.
       (9) Section 2812(c) is amended by striking paragraph (1) 
     and inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(1) The Secretary concerned may enter into a lease under 
     this section only after the end of the 14-day period 
     beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a justification of the 
     need for the facility covered by the proposed lease, 
     including an economic analysis (based upon accepted life-
     cycle costing procedures) that demonstrates the cost 
     effectiveness of the proposed lease compared with a military 
     construction project for the same facility.''.
       (10) Section 2813(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``transmits to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress a written notification'' and inserting ``notifies 
     the appropriate committees of Congress'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.
       (11) Section 2814 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a); and
       (B) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(g) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may carry out a transaction authorized by this section 
     only after the end of the 20-day period beginning on the date 
     on which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress notice of the transaction, including a 
     detailed description of the transaction and a justification 
     for the transaction specifying the manner in which the 
     transaction will meet the purposes of this section.''.
       (b) Military Family Housing Activities.--Subchapter II of 
     chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
     follows:
       (1) Section 2825(b) is amended--
       (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as 
     paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively;
       (B) in paragraph (5), as redesignated--
       (i) by striking ``the first sentence of''; and
       (ii) by striking ``in that sentence'' and inserting ``in 
     that paragraph''; and
       (C) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``The Secretary 
     concerned may waive the limitations contained in the 
     preceding sentence'' and inserting the following:
       ``(2) The Secretary concerned may waive the limitations 
     contained in paragraph (1)'';
       (ii) in the third sentence, by striking ``the Secretary 
     transmits'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     sentence and inserting the following: ``the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress notice of 
     the proposed waiver, together with an economic analysis 
     demonstrating that the improvement will be cost effective.''.
       (2) Section 2827 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Relocation 
     Authority.--'' after ``(a)''; and
       (B) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(b) Notice and Wait Requirements.--A contract to carry 
     out a relocation of military family housing units under 
     subsection (a) may be awarded only after the end of the 14-
     day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     concerned submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress notice of the proposed new locations of the housing 
     units to be relocated and the estimated cost of and source of 
     funds for the relocation.''.
       (3) Section 2828(f) is amended by striking ``may not be 
     made'' and all that follows through the end of the subsection 
     and inserting ``may be made under this section only after the 
     end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which the 
     Secretary concerned submits, in an electronic medium pursuant 
     to section 480 of this title, to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress notice of the facts concerning the proposed 
     lease.''.
       (4) Section 2831(f) is amended by striking ``until--'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
     inserting the following: ``until after the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     justification of the need for the maintenance or repair 
     project, including an estimate of the cost of the project.''.
       (5) Section 2835 is amended by striking subsection (g) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Notice and Wait Requirements.--A contract may be 
     entered into for the lease of housing facilities under this 
     section only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on 
     the date on which the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it 
     is not operating as a service in the Navy, submits, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress an economic analysis 
     (based upon accepted life cycle costing procedures) which 
     demonstrates that the proposed contract is cost-effective 
     when compared with alternative means of furnishing the same 
     housing facilities.''.
       (6) Section 2835a(c) is amended by striking ``until--'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
     inserting the following: ``until after the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a notice of 
     the intent to undertake the conversion.''.
       (c) Administrative Provisions.--Subchapter III of chapter 
     169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2853(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'' both places it appears;
       (B) in paragraph (1)(B)--
       (i) by striking ``period of 21 days'' and inserting ``14-
     day period''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or, if over sooner, a period of 14 days 
     has elapsed after the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''; and
       (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting after ``notifies'' the 
     following: ``, using an electronic medium pursuant to section 
     480 of this title,''.
       (2) Section 2854(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2854a is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(c) Notice and Wait Requirements.--(1) The Secretary 
     concerned may enter into an agreement to convey a family 
     housing facility under this section only after the end of the 
     14-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     notice containing a justification for the conveyance under 
     the agreement.
       ``(2) A notice under paragraph (1) shall include--
       ``(A) an estimate of the consideration to be provided the 
     United States under the agreement;
       ``(B) an estimate of the cost of repairing the family 
     housing facility to be conveyed; and
       ``(C) an estimate of the cost of replacing the family 
     housing facility to be conveyed.''.
       (4) Section 2861(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (5) Section 2866(c)(2) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (B) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (6) Section 2869(d)(3) is amended--
       (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``after a period of 
     21 days'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     sentence and inserting the following: ``after the end of the 
     14-day period beginning on the date of the submission of the 
     notice in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title.''; and
       (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``only after'' and 
     all that follows through the end of the sentence and 
     inserting the following: ``only after the end of the 45-day 
     period beginning on the date of the submission of the notice 
     in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title.''
       (d) Alternative Authority for Acquisition and Improvement 
     of Military Housing.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2881a(d)(2) is amended by inserting after 
     ``Congress'' the following: ``in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
       (2) Section 2883(f) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``30-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period'';

[[Page H5635]]

       (B) by striking ``written''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notice 
     and justification is provided''.
       (3) Section 2884(a) is amended by striking paragraph (4) 
     and inserting the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The report shall be submitted in an electronic medium 
     pursuant to section 480 of this title not later than 21 days 
     before the date on which the Secretary issues the contract 
     solicitation or offers the conveyance or lease.''.
       (4) Section 2885 is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)(4)(B)--
       (i) by inserting after ``notify'' the following: ``, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title,''; 
     and
       (ii) by striking ``, and shall provide'' and inserting 
     ``and include''; and
       (B) in subsection (d), by inserting after ``submit'' the 
     following: ``, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 
     480 of this title,''.
       (e) Energy Security Activities.--Chapter 173 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 2914(b)(1) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (2) Section 2916(c) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``in writing'';
       (B) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (C) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the 
     notification is provided''.
       (f) Military Construction Carried Out Using Burden Sharing 
     Contributions.--Section 2350j(e)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``21-day period'' and inserting ``14-day 
     period''; and
       (2) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.
       (g) Acquisition of Facilities for Reserve Components by 
     Exchange.--Section 18240(f)(2) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``30-day period'' and inserting ``21-day 
     period''; and
       (2) by striking ``or, if earlier, the end of the 21-day 
     period beginning on the date on which a copy of the report is 
     provided''.

     SEC. 2802. MODIFICATION OF THRESHOLDS APPLICABLE TO 
                   UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

       (a) Increase in Threshold; Uniform Threshold for All 
     Projects.--Section 2805(a)(2) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``$3,000,000'' and 
     inserting ``$6,000,000''; and
       (2) by striking the second sentence.
       (b) Notice Requirements.--Section 2805(b)(1) of such title 
     is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' and inserting 
     ``$750,000''.
       (c) Use of Operation and Maintenance Funds.--Section 
     2805(c) of such title is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' 
     and inserting ``$2,000,000''.

     SEC. 2803. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE 
                   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR 
                   CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
                   STATES.

       (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 2808 
     of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2004 (division B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), 
     as most recently amended by section 2804 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2713), is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2018''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and 
     inserting ``fiscal year 2019''.
       (b) Limitation on Use of Authority.--Subsection (c)(1) of 
     such section is amended--
       (1) by striking ``October 1, 2016'' and inserting ``October 
     1, 2017'';
       (2) by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting 
     ``December 31, 2018''; and
       (3) by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and inserting ``fiscal 
     year 2019''.

     SEC. 2804. USE OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR 
                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS TO REPLACE 
                   FACILITIES DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BY NATURAL 
                   DISASTERS OR TERRORISM INCIDENTS.

       (a) Authorizing Use of Funds.--Section 2854 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subsection:
       ``(c)(1) In using the authority described in subsection (a) 
     to carry out a military construction project to replace a 
     facility, including a family housing facility, that has been 
     damaged or destroyed, the Secretary concerned may use 
     appropriations available for operation and maintenance if--
       ``(A) the damage or destruction to the facility was the 
     result of a natural disaster or a terrorism incident; and
       ``(B) the Secretary submits a notification to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress of the decision to carry 
     out the replacement project, and includes in the 
     notification--
       ``(i) the current estimate of the cost of the replacement 
     project;
       ``(ii) the source of funds for the replacement project;
       ``(iii) in the case of damage to a facility rather than 
     destruction, a certification that the replacement project is 
     more cost-effective than repair or restoration; and
       ``(iv) a certification that deferral of the replacement 
     project for inclusion in the next Military Construction 
     Authorization Act would be inconsistent with national 
     security or the protection of health, safety, or 
     environmental quality, as the case may be.
       ``(2) A replacement project under this subsection may be 
     carried out only after the end of the 7-day period beginning 
     on the date on which a copy of the notification described in 
     paragraph (1) is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title.
       ``(3) The maximum aggregate amount that the Secretary 
     concerned may obligate from appropriations available for 
     operation and maintenance in any fiscal year for replacement 
     projects under the authority of this subsection is 
     $50,000,000.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of section 2854 
     of such title, as amended by section 2801(c)(2), is amended 
     by striking ``under this section'' and inserting ``under 
     subsection (a)''.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

     SEC. 2811. ELIMINATION OF WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIREMENT FOR 
                   MILITARY REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS AND 
                   RELIANCE ON ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF 
                   NOTIFICATIONS AND REPORTS.

       (a) General Real Property Transaction Report.--Section 
     2662(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking paragraph (3) and inserting a new paragraph:
       ``(3) The authority of the Secretary concerned to enter 
     into a transaction described in paragraph (1) commences only 
     after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the first day 
     of the first month beginning on or after the date on which 
     the report containing the facts concerning such transaction, 
     and all other such proposed transactions for that month, is 
     provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title.''.
       (b) Acquisition of Interests in Land When Need Is Urgent.--
     Section 2663(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting after ``submit'' the following: ``, in an 
     electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title,''; 
     and
       (2) by striking ``written notice'' and inserting ``a 
     notice''.
       (c) Acquisition of Land by Condemnation for Certain 
     Military Purposes.--Section 2663(f)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``or, if over sooner, the 
     end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a 
     copy of the report is provided''.
       (d) Exceptions to Limitations on Land Acquisition Reduction 
     in Scope or Increase in Cost.--Section 2664(d) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``written'';
       (2) by striking ``a period of 21 days elapses from'' and 
     inserting ``the end of the 14-day period beginning on''; and
       (3) by striking ``or, if over sooner, a period of 14 days 
     elapses from the date on which a copy of that notification is 
     provided''.
       (e) Leases of Non-excess Defense Property.--Section 
     2667(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking ``provide to the congressional defense committees 
     written notice'' and inserting ``submit, in an electronic 
     medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, to the 
     congressional defense committees a notice''.
       (f) Maintenance and Repair and Jurisdiction Over Facilities 
     for Defense Agencies.--Section 2682(c)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``to the appropriate 
     congressional committees written notification'' and inserting 
     ``, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
     title, to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     notice''.
       (g) Agreements to Limit Encroachments and Other Constraints 
     on Military Training, Testing, and Operations.--Section 
     2684a(d)(4)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in clause (i), by striking ``provides written notice'' 
     and inserting ``submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to 
     section 480 of this title, a notice''; and
       (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``14 days'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the clause and inserting the 
     following: ``10 days after the date on which the notice is 
     submitted under clause (i).''.
       (h) Conveyance of Surplus Real Property for Natural 
     Resource Conservation.--Section 2694a of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking subsection (e) and 
     inserting the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Notice and Wait Requirements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may not approve of the reconveyance of real 
     property under subsection (c) or grant the release of a 
     covenant under subsection (d) until after the end of the 14-
     day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary 
     submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
     this title, to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     notice of the proposed reconveyance or release.''.

     SEC. 2812. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY OF FAIR MARKET 
                   VALUE CONSIDERATION IN GRANTS OF EASEMENTS ON 
                   MILITARY LANDS FOR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

       Section 2668(e) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Disposition 
     of'' and inserting ``Conditions and''; and
       (2) by striking ``Subsections (c) and (e)'' and inserting 
     ``Subsections (b)(4), (c), and (e)''.

     SEC. 2813. CRITERIA FOR EXCHANGES OF PROPERTY AT MILITARY 
                   INSTALLATIONS.

       Paragraph (2) of section 2869(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to real property 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned--
       ``(A) that is located on a military installation that is 
     closed or realigned under a base closure law; or

[[Page H5636]]

       ``(B) that is located on a military installation not 
     covered by subparagraph (A) and for which the Secretary 
     concerned makes a determination that the conveyance under 
     paragraph (1) is advantageous to the United States.''.

     SEC. 2814. PROHIBITING USE OF UPDATED ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC 
                   SCHOOLS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS 
                   TO SUPERSEDE FUNDING OF CERTAIN PROJECTS.

       (a) Prohibiting Use of Updated Assessment to Supersede 
     Funding of Certain Public School Projects.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 2814 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2717) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Prohibiting use of updated assessment to supersede 
     funding of certain remaining projects.--In determining which 
     projects will be funded under the programs described in 
     paragraph (2), the Secretary may not, on the basis of the 
     updated assessment described in paragraph (1), supersede the 
     funding of any of the remaining projects which were included 
     among the 33 projects for which Secretary assigned the 
     highest priority for receiving funds under the assessment of 
     the capacity and facility condition deficiencies of 
     elementary and secondary public schools on military 
     installations conducted by the Secretary in July 2011 under 
     section 8109 of the Department of Defense and Full-Year 
     Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 112-10; 125 
     Stat. 82).''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.

     SEC. 2815. REQUIREMENTS FOR WINDOW FALL PREVENTION DEVICES IN 
                   MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING.

       (a) Requirement.--Chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2878 the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2879. Window fall prevention devices in military 
       family housing units

       ``(a) Requiring Use of Devices on Certain Windows.--The 
     Secretary concerned shall ensure that if a window in any 
     military family housing unit acquired or constructed under 
     this chapter is described in subsection (b), including a 
     window designed for emergency escape or rescue, the window is 
     equipped with fall prevention devices that protect against 
     unintentional window falls by young children and that are in 
     compliance with applicable International Building Code (IBC) 
     standards.
       ``(b) Windows Described.--A window is described in this 
     subsection if the bottom sill of the window is within 36 
     inches of the floor, as measured in the interior of the 
     unit.''.
       (b) Briefing on Implementation.--Not later than 180 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     each military department shall brief the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives on the 
     implementation of section 2879 of title 10, United States 
     Code (as added by subsection (a)), and include in the 
     briefing the following:
       (1) The extent to which the Secretary is in compliance with 
     the requirements of such section.
       (2) A plan for the retrofitting of existing military family 
     housing units to enable the units to meet the requirements of 
     such section.
       (3) The feasibility and cost-effectiveness of expanding the 
     requirements of such section to apply to windows for which 
     the bottom sill--
       (A) is within 42 inches of the floor, as measured in the 
     interior of the unit; or
       (B) is 72 inches or more above the ground, as measured on 
     the exterior of the unit.
       (4) The feasibility and cost-effectiveness of modifying the 
     requirements of such section to require windows to be 
     equipped with fall prevention devices that meet the following 
     requirements:
       (A) The device attaches to the window frame and covers the 
     entire opening with materials of sufficient strength to 
     withstand 60 pounds (27 kg) of force.
       (B) The device allows protection in case of a fully opened 
     window.
       (C) The device prohibits the passage of a 4 inch rigid 
     sphere anywhere in the window opening.
       (D) The device has a 2 step release mechanism that--
       (i) allows the window to be fully opened for emergency 
     escape or rescue with no more than 15 lb ft of force;
       (ii) requires 2 distinct actions to operate;
       (iii) is clearly identified for use in an emergency; and
       (iv) is not designed in a manner which accommodates the use 
     of locking devices which require special tools or knowledge 
     to operate, such as combination locks or keyed locks.
       (5) The feasibility and cost-effectiveness of extending the 
     requirements of such section to private housing leased or 
     otherwise used by military families.
       (6) The feasibility and cost-effectiveness of other 
     potential methods to protect against unintentional window 
     falls by young children in military family housing units.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     169 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 2878 the following new item:

``2879. Window fall prevention devices in military family housing 
              units.''.

     SEC. 2816. AUTHORIZING REIMBURSEMENT OF STATES FOR COSTS OF 
                   SUPPRESSING WILDFIRES CAUSED BY DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE ACTIVITIES ON STATE LANDS; RESTORATION 
                   OF LANDS OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES FOR DAMAGE 
                   CAUSED BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE VEHICLE 
                   MISHAPS.

       (a) Authorities.--Section 2691 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``or lease'' each place 
     it appears;
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``or lease'';
       (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``lease,''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
       ``(d) Wildland Fires on State Land.--The Secretary of 
     Defense may, in any lease, permit, license, or other grant of 
     access for use of lands owned by a State, agree to reimburse 
     the State for the reasonable costs of the State in 
     suppressing wildland fires caused by the activities of the 
     Department of Defense under such lease, permit, license, or 
     other grant of access.
       ``(e) Restoration of Land Damaged by Mishap.--(1) When land 
     under the administrative jurisdiction of a Federal agency 
     that is not a part of the Department of Defense is damaged as 
     the result of a mishap involving a vessel, aircraft, or 
     vehicle of the Department of Defense, the Secretary of 
     Defense may, with the consent of the Federal agency, restore 
     the land.
       ``(2) When land under the administrative jurisdiction of 
     the Department of Defense or a military department is damaged 
     as the result of a mishap involving a vessel, aircraft, or 
     vehicle of a Federal agency that is not a part of the 
     Department of Defense, the head of the Federal agency under 
     whose control the vessel, aircraft, or vehicle was operating 
     may, with the consent of the Department of Defense, restore 
     the land.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``lease'' and 
     inserting ``DAMAGED BY MISHAP; REIMBURSEMENT OF STATE COSTS 
     OF FIGHTING WILDLAND FIRES'';
       (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) The Secretary'' 
     and inserting ``(a) Restoration of Other Agency Land Used by 
     Permit.--The Secretary'';
       (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b) Unless'' and 
     inserting ``(b) Screening for Use of Improved Land.--
     Unless''; and
       (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``(c)(1) As a 
     condition'' and inserting ``(c) Restoration of Department of 
     Defense Land Used by Other Agency.--(1) As a condition''.
       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 
     159 of such title is amended by amending the item relating to 
     section 2691 to read as follows:

``2691. Restoration of land used by permit or damaged by mishap; 
              reimbursement of State costs of fighting wildland 
              fires.''.

     SEC. 2817. PROHIBITING COLLECTION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FROM 
                   MEMBERS LIVING IN UNITS UNDER MILITARY HOUSING 
                   PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE.

       (a) Prohibition.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 2886. Prohibiting collection of amounts in addition to 
       rent from members assigned to units

       ``(a) Prohibition.--An agreement for acquiring or 
     constructing a military family housing unit or military 
     unaccompanied housing unit under this subchapter which is 
     entered into between the Secretary and an eligible entity 
     shall prohibit the entity from imposing on a member of the 
     armed forces who occupies the unit a supplemental payment 
     (such as an out-of-pocket fee) in addition to the amount of 
     rent the eligible entity charges for a unit of similar size 
     and composition, without regard to whether or not the amount 
     of the member's basic allowance for housing is less than the 
     amount of the rent.
       ``(b) Permitting Certain Additional Payments.--Nothing in 
     this section shall be construed to prohibit an eligible 
     entity from imposing an additional payment for optional 
     services provided to residents, such as access to a gym or a 
     parking space, or an additional payment for non-essential 
     utility services, as determined in accordance with 
     regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
       ``(c) No Effect on Rental Guarantees or Differential Lease 
     Payments.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
     limit or otherwise affect the authority of the Secretary to 
     enter into rental guarantee agreements under section 2876 of 
     this title or to make differential lease payments under 
     section 2877 of this title, so long as such agreements or 
     payments do not require a member of the armed forces who is 
     assigned to a military family housing unit or military 
     unaccompanied housing unit under this subchapter to pay an 
     out-of-pocket fee or payment in addition to the member's 
     basic housing allowance.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter IV of chapter 169 of such title is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new item:

``2886. Prohibiting collection of amounts in addition to rent from 
              members assigned to units.''.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

     SEC. 2821. LAND EXCHANGE, NAVAL INDUSTRIAL RESERVE ORDNANCE 
                   PLANT, SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA.

       (a) Land Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     may convey to an entity (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Exchange Entity'') all right, title, and interest of the 
     United States in and to the parcel of real property, 
     including improvements thereon, comprising the Naval 
     Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant (NIROP) located in 
     Sunnyvale, California in exchange for--
       (1) real property, including improvements thereon, that 
     will replace the NIROP and meet the readiness requirements of 
     the Department of the Navy, as determined by the Secretary; 
     and

[[Page H5637]]

       (2) relocation of contractor and Government personnel and 
     equipment from the NIROP to the replacement facilities.
       (b) Land Exchange Agreement.--
       (1) In general.--The exchange authorized under subsection 
     (a) shall be governed by a land exchange agreement that 
     identifies the property to be exchanged (including 
     improvements thereon), the time period in which the exchange 
     will occur, and the roles and responsibilities of the 
     Secretary and the Exchange Entity in carrying out the 
     exchange.
       (2) Compliance with environmental laws.--Nothing in this 
     section shall be construed to affect or limit the application 
     of, or any obligation to comply with, any environmental law, 
     including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
       (c) Valuation; Cash Equalization Payment if NIROP Value 
     Exceeds Value of Exchanged Property.--
       (1) Valuation.--The values of the properties to be 
     exchanged by the Secretary and the Exchange Entity under 
     subsection (a) (including improvements thereon) shall be 
     determined by an independent appraiser selected by the 
     Secretary, and in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal 
     Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform 
     Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
       (2) Cash equalization payment.--If, as determined in 
     accordance with paragraph (1), the value of the NIROP is 
     greater than the combination of the value of the property to 
     be conveyed by the Exchange Entity under subsection (a) and 
     the relocation costs covered by the Exchange Entity under 
     such subsection, the Exchange Entity shall make a cash 
     equalization payment to the Secretary to equalize the values. 
     Nothing in this paragraph may be construed to require the 
     Secretary to make a cash equalization payment to the Exchange 
     Entity if the value of the property to be conveyed by the 
     Exchange Entity and the relocation costs covered by the 
     Exchange Entity are greater than the value of the NIROP.
       (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--The Secretary shall 
     require the Exchange Entity to pay costs incurred by the 
     Department of the Navy to carry out the exchange authorized 
     under subsection (a), including costs incurred for land 
     surveys, environmental documentation, the review of 
     replacement facilities design, real estate due diligence 
     (including appraisals), preparing and executing the agreement 
     described in subsection (b), and any other administrative 
     costs related to the exchange. If amounts are collected from 
     the Exchange Entity in advance of the Secretary incurring the 
     actual costs and the amount collected exceeds the costs 
     actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the exchange 
     under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the excess 
     amount to the Exchange Entity.
       (e) Treatment of Amounts Received.--Amounts received under 
     subsections (a), (c)(2), and (d) shall be used in accordance 
     with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code.
       (f) Description of Property.--The exact legal description 
     of the property, including acreage, to be exchanged under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to 
     the Secretary.
       (g) Relation to Other Military Construction Requirements.--
       (1) Exclusion from treatment as military construction 
     project.--The acquisition or disposition of any property 
     pursuant to the exchange authorized under subsection (a) 
     shall not be treated as a military construction project for 
     which an authorization is required by section 2802 of title 
     10, United States Code, or for which reporting is required by 
     section 2662 of such title.
       (2) Exclusion of requirement for prior screening by general 
     services administration for additional federal use.--Section 
     2696(b) of title 10, United States Code, does not apply to 
     the conveyance of any real property pursuant to the exchange 
     authorized under subsection (a).
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the exchange authorized under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.
       (i) Sunset.--The authority provided to the Secretary to 
     carry out the exchange under subsection (a) shall expire on 
     October 1, 2023.

     SEC. 2822. LAND CONVEYANCE, NAVAL SHIP REPAIR FACILITY, GUAM.

       (a) Conveyance.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     convey, without consideration, to the Guam Economic 
     Development Authority (hereafter referred to as the 
     ``Authority'') all right, title, and interest of the United 
     States in and to the real property (including improvements 
     thereon and related personal property) consisting of the 
     former Naval Ship Repair Facility in Guam, as identified 
     under the base realignment and closure authority carried out 
     under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 
     (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 
     note), for purposes of providing support for ship repair and 
     other military maintenance requirements.
       (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Navy 
     determines at any time that the property conveyed under 
     subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the 
     purpose of the conveyance specified in such subsection, all 
     right, title, and interest in and to such property, including 
     any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of the 
     Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United 
     States, and the United States shall have the right of 
     immediate entry onto such real property. A determination by 
     the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the 
     record after an opportunity for a hearing.
       (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy shall be responsible for the costs of carrying out the 
     conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, 
     costs for environmental documentation and remediation, and 
     any other administrative costs related to the conveyance.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined as set forth in the Environmental 
     Impact Statement for the Relocation of U.S. Marine Corps 
     Forces to Guam, as completed by the Secretary of the Navy in 
     September 2010.
       (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States and to ensure that the property conveyed is 
     used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance.

     SEC. 2823. LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY TO THE UNITED STATES NAVAL 
                   ACADEMY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION AND NAVAL ACADEMY 
                   FOUNDATION AT UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY, 
                   ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.

       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy may lease 
     approximately 3 acres at the United States Naval Academy in 
     Annapolis, Maryland to the United States Naval Academy Alumni 
     Association Inc. and the United States Naval Academy 
     Foundation Inc. (hereafter referred to as the ``lessees''), 
     for the purpose of enabling the lessees to construct, 
     operate, and maintain the Alumni Association and Foundation 
     Center.
       (b) Duration of Lease.--At the option of the Secretary of 
     the Navy, the lease entered into under this section shall be 
     in effect for 50 years. Upon the expiration of the lease, the 
     Secretary may extend the lease for such additional period as 
     the Secretary may determine.
       (c) Payments Under Lease.--
       (1) Amount of payments based on fair market value.--The 
     Secretary of the Navy shall require the lessees to make 
     payments under the lease entered into under this section, in 
     cash or in the form of in-kind consideration, in an amount 
     and form that reflects the fair market value of the lease as 
     determined by the Secretary.
       (2) Payments in the form of in-kind consideration.--
       (A) Timing.--To the extent that the lessees make payments 
     under the lease in the form of in-kind consideration, such 
     consideration may be paid as a lump-sum payment for the 
     entire lease term, or any part thereof, or in annual 
     installments.
       (B) Description of in-kind consideration.--The in-kind 
     consideration paid under the lease--
       (i) shall include the relocation of any Naval Support 
     Activity Annapolis functions presently located on the land to 
     be leased to alternate locations deemed sufficient by the 
     Secretary; and
       (ii) may include annual support (including cash, real 
     property, or personal property) provided by the lessees after 
     the date the lease is executed, to be used for the benefit 
     of, or for use in connection with, the Naval Academy.
       (d) Retention and Use of Funds.--Funds received under the 
     lease entered into under this section may be retained for use 
     in support of the Naval Academy and to cover expenses 
     incurred by the Secretary of the Navy in managing the lease.
       (e) Leaseback Prohibited.--During the period in which the 
     lease entered into under this section is in effect, the 
     Secretary of the Navy may not lease any of the space 
     constructed by the lessees on the property leased under this 
     section.
       (f) Payment of Costs of Entering Into and Managing Lease.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
     require the lessees to cover the costs to be incurred by the 
     Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs 
     incurred by the Secretary, in entering into and managing the 
     lease under this section, including survey costs, costs for 
     environmental documentation, and any other administrative 
     costs related to the lease (as defined in section 2667 of 
     title 10, United States Code). Any expenses incurred by the 
     lessees pursuant to this provision may be considered in-kind 
     consideration for purposes of subsection (c)(2) and may be 
     credited against any payments due during the term of the 
     lease.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
     fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred 
     by the Secretary in entering into and managing the lease. 
     Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund 
     or account, and shall be available for the same purposes, and 
     subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in 
     such fund or account. If amounts are collected from the 
     lessees in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual 
     costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually 
     incurred by the Secretary in entering into and managing the 
     lease, the Secretary may refund the excess amount to the 
     lessees.
       (g) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be leased under this section 
     shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary 
     of the Navy, and may include property currently used for 
     public purposes.
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the lease entered into under this section as 
     the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests 
     of the United States.

     SEC. 2824. LAND CONVEYANCE, NATICK SOLDIER SYSTEMS CENTER, 
                   MASSACHUSETTS.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     sell and convey all right, title,

[[Page H5638]]

     and interest of the United States in and to parcels of real 
     property, consisting of approximately 98 acres and 
     improvements thereon, located in the vicinity of Hudson, 
     Wayland, and Needham, Massachusetts, that are the sites of 
     military family housing supporting military personnel 
     assigned to the United States (U.S.) Army Natick Soldier 
     Systems Center.
       (b) Competitive Sale Requirement.--The Secretary shall use 
     competitive procedures for the sale authorized by subsection 
     (a).
       (c) Consideration.--
       (1) Consideration required.--The Secretary shall require as 
     consideration for conveyance under subsection (a), tendered 
     by cash payment, an amount equal to no less than the fair 
     market value, as determined by the Secretary, of the real 
     property and any improvements thereon.
       (2) Cash payments.--
       (A) Cash payments deposited in a special account.--Cash 
     payments provided as consideration under this subsection 
     shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury 
     established for the Secretary.
       (B) Use of funds in special account.--The Secretary is 
     authorized to use funds deposited in the special account 
     established under subparagraph (A) for--
       (i) demolition of existing military family housing on the 
     U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center (other than housing 
     on property conveyed under subsection (a)) that the Secretary 
     determines necessary to accommodate construction of military 
     family housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support 
     military personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier 
     Systems Center;
       (ii) construction or rehabilitation of military family 
     housing or unaccompanied soldier housing to support military 
     personnel assigned to the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems 
     Center; or
       (iii) construction of ancillary supporting facilities (as 
     that term is defined in section 2871(1) of title 10, United 
     States Code) to support military personnel assigned to the 
     U.S. Army Natick Soldier Systems Center.
       (C) Cash consideration not used prior to october 1, 2025.--
     Cash payments provided as consideration under this subsection 
     that are received by the Secretary and not used by the 
     Secretary for purposes authorized by subparagraph (B) prior 
     to October 1, 2025, shall be transferred to an account in the 
     Treasury established pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       (d) Description of Parcels.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the parcels to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to 
     the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the 
     recipient of the parcels.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
       (f) Inapplicability of Certain Provisions of Law.--The 
     conveyance of property under this section shall not be 
     subject to section 2696 of title 10, United States Code.
       (g) Definition of Secretary.--In this section the term 
     ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Army.

     SEC. 2825. IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS ON LAND 
                   CONVEYANCE, CASTNER RANGE, FORT BLISS, TEXAS.

       Section 2844 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 
     Stat. 2157) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(e) Additional Conditions on Any Conveyance of Castner 
     Range.--
       ``(1) Conditions.--The real property described in 
     subsection (a) may not be conveyed to the Department or any 
     other governmental, public, or private entity unless the 
     recipient agrees--
       ``(A) to prohibit the commercial development of the real 
     property; and
       ``(B) to conserve and protect the ecological, scenic, 
     wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, 
     educational, and scientific resources of the real property.
       ``(2) Reconveyance to public land trust.--The conditions 
     imposed by paragraph (1) do not prevent the recipient of real 
     property described in subsection (a) from conveying all or a 
     portion of the real property to a public land trust so long 
     as the public land trust agrees to comply with such 
     conditions.
       ``(3) Conveyance defined.--In this subsection, the term 
     `convey' includes any transfer of administrative jurisdiction 
     over the real property described in subsection (a) to another 
     Federal agency.''.

     SEC. 2826. LAND CONVEYANCE, WASATCH-CACHE NATIONAL FOREST, 
                   RICH COUNTY, UTAH.

       (a) Land Conveyance Authorized.--Not later than 6 months 
     after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
     Secretary of Agriculture shall convey, without consideration, 
     to the Utah State University Research Foundation (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Foundation'') all right, title, 
     and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property consisting of approximately 80 acres, including 
     improvements thereon, located outside of the boundaries of 
     the Wasatch-Cache National Forest in Rich County, Utah, 
     within Sections 19 and 30, Township 14 North, Range 5 East, 
     Salt Lake Base and Meridian for the purpose of permitting the 
     Foundation to use the property for scientific and educational 
     purposes.
       (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of Agriculture 
     determines at any time that the real property conveyed under 
     subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the 
     purpose of the conveyance specified in such subsection, all 
     right, title, and interest in and to such real property, 
     including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
     the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the 
     United States, and the United States shall have the right of 
     immediate entry onto such real property. A determination by 
     the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the 
     record after an opportunity for a hearing.
       (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
     require the Foundation to cover the costs (except any costs 
     for environmental remediation of the property) to be incurred 
     by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such 
     costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for 
     environmental documentation, and any other administrative 
     costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected 
     from the Foundation in advance of the Secretary incurring the 
     actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs 
     actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
     conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to 
     the Foundation.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
     fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred 
     by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so 
     credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or 
     account, and shall be available for the same purposes, and 
     subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in 
     such fund or account.
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
     Secretary of Agriculture.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of 
     Agriculture may require such additional terms and conditions 
     in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.

     SEC. 2827. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORMER MISSILE ALERT FACILITY 
                   KNOWN AS QUEBEC-01, LARAMIE COUNTY, WYOMING.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey, without consideration, to the State of Wyoming 
     (in this section referred to as the ``State''), all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to the real 
     property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of 
     the former Missile Alert Facility (MAF) known as ``Quebec-
     01,'' located in Laramie County, Wyoming, for the purpose of 
     operating a historical site, interpretive center, or museum.
       (b) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--Subject to paragraph (2), the 
     Secretary of the Air Force shall require the State to cover 
     costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the 
     Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
     out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey 
     costs, costs for environmental documentation, and any other 
     administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts 
     are collected from the State in advance of the Secretary 
     incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds 
     the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
     conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to 
     the State.
       (2) Limitation on payment of costs by state.--
       (A) Limitation.--Paragraph (1) shall apply only with 
     respect to the costs the State agrees to cover under the 
     Programmatic Agreement described in subparagraph (B), as such 
     Agreement is in effect at the time of the payment of the 
     costs.
       (B) Programmatic agreement described.--The Programmatic 
     Agreement described in this subparagraph is the Programmatic 
     Agreement between Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, and the 
     Wyoming State Historic Preservation Officer, Regarding the 
     Implementation of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty at 
     Francis E. Warren Air Force Base Cheyenne, Laramie County, 
     Wyoming.
       (3) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
     reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
     fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred 
     by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance, or if such 
     fund or account has expired at the time of credit, to an 
     appropriate appropriation, fund, or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such appropriation, fund, or account, and shall be 
     available for the same purpose, and subject to the same 
     conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
     account.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the property to be conveyed under subsection 
     (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
     Secretary of the Air Force.
       (d) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Air 
     Force determines at any time that the real property conveyed 
     under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the 
     purpose of the conveyance specified in subsection (a), all 
     right, title, and interest in and to such real property, 
     including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
     the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the 
     United States, and the United States shall have the right of 
     immediate entry onto such real property. A determination by 
     the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the 
     record after an opportunity for a hearing.
       (e) Additional Terms.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
     protect the interests of the United States.

[[Page H5639]]

  


                 Subtitle D--Military Land Withdrawals

     SEC. 2831. INDEFINITE DURATION OF CERTAIN MILITARY LAND 
                   WITHDRAWALS AND RESERVATIONS AND IMPROVED 
                   MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN AND RESERVED LANDS.

       (a) Improving Management of Current Statutory Land 
     Withdrawals and Reservations and Making Management More 
     Transparent.--
       (1) Role of secretary of the interior.--Section 101(a)(2) 
     of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(a)(2)) is amended by 
     striking ``, acting through the Director of the United States 
     Fish and Wildlife Service,''.
       (2) Additional elements of integrated natural resources 
     management plan.--Section 101(b) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 
     670a(b)) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (1)--
       (i) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (K); 
     and
       (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(J) procedures to ensure that each periodic review of the 
     plan is conducted jointly by the Secretary of the military 
     department and the Secretary of the Interior, and that 
     affected States and Indian tribes, and the public, are 
     provided a meaningful opportunity to comment upon any 
     substantial revisions to the plan that may be proposed; 
     and'';
       (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
     (3) and (4), respectively; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(2) shall contain a determination by the Secretary of the 
     military department regarding whether there will be a 
     continuing military need for the lands covered by the 
     integrated natural resources management plan during the 
     period of the plan;''.
       (b) El Centro Naval Air Facility Ranges.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--The El Centro Naval Air Facility Ranges 
     Withdrawal Act (subtitle B of title XXIX of Public Law 104-
     201; 110 Stat. 2813) is amended--
       (A) in section 2921(b)(3), by striking ``, before the 
     termination date specified in section 2925,'';
       (B) in section 2924(a), by striking the third sentence;
       (C) by striking sections 2925 and 2927; and
       (D) in section 2928(a), by striking ``specified in section 
     2925''.
       (2) Establishment of intergovernmental executive 
     committee.--The El Centro Naval Air Facility Ranges 
     Withdrawal Act (subtitle B of title XXIX of Public Law 104-
     201; 110 Stat. 2813) is further amended by inserting after 
     section 2924 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 2925. INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

       ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--The Secretary of the Navy 
     and the Secretary of the Interior shall establish, by 
     memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental executive 
     committee for the sole purpose of exchanging views, 
     information, and advice relating to the management of the 
     natural and cultural resources of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved under this subtitle.
       ``(b) Composition.--
       ``(1) Representatives of other federal agencies.--The 
     Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     include representatives from interested Federal agencies as 
     members of the intergovernmental executive committee.
       ``(2) Representatives of state and local governments.--The 
     Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     invite to serve as members of the intergovernmental executive 
     committee--
       ``(A) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from the government of the State of 
     California; and
       ``(B) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from each local government and Indian tribal 
     government in the vicinity of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands, as determined by the Secretaries.
       ``(c) Operation.--The intergovernmental executive committee 
     shall operate in accordance with the terms set forth in the 
     memorandum of understanding under subsection (a).
       ``(d) Procedures.--The memorandum of understanding under 
     subsection (a) shall establish procedures for creating a 
     forum for exchanging views, information, and advice relating 
     to the management of natural and cultural resources on the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved under this subtitle, procedures 
     for rotating the chair of the intergovernmental executive 
     committee, and procedures for scheduling regular meetings, 
     which shall occur no less frequently than twice a year.
       ``(e) Coordinator.--The Secretary of the Navy, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall 
     appoint an individual to serve as coordinator of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee. The duties of the 
     coordinator shall be included in the memorandum of 
     understanding under subsection (a). The coordinator shall not 
     be a member of the committee.
       ``(f) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to the 
     intergovernmental executive committee.''.
       (3) Determination of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation and public reports.--The El Centro 
     Naval Air Facility Ranges Withdrawal Act (subtitle B of title 
     XXIX of Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2813) is further 
     amended by inserting after section 2926 the following new 
     section:

     ``SEC. 2927. DETERMINATION OF CONTINUING MILITARY NEED FOR 
                   WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION AND PUBLIC REPORTS.

       ``(a) Determination of Continuing Military Need.--Whenever 
     an integrated natural resources management plan covering the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved under this subtitle is reviewed 
     as to operation and effect as required by section 101(b)(3) 
     of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(b)(2)), but not less often 
     than every five years, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
     include the Secretary's determination regarding whether there 
     will be a continuing military need for any or all of the 
     withdrawn and reserved lands for the following five years.
       ``(b) Public Reports.--
       ``(1) Changes in land conditions.--(A) Concurrent with each 
     review of an integrated natural resources management plan 
     described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy and 
     the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly prepare and issue 
     a report describing any changes in the condition of the lands 
     withdrawn and reserved under this subtitle since the later of 
     the date of any previous report under this paragraph or the 
     date of the environmental analysis prepared to support the 
     actions that changed the condition of the lands.
       ``(B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
     summary of current military use of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved under this subtitle, any changes in military use of 
     the lands since the previous report, and efforts related to 
     the management of natural and cultural resources and 
     environmental remediation of the lands during the previous 
     five years.
       ``(2) Combination with other reports.--A report under this 
     subsection may be combined with, or incorporate by reference, 
     any contemporary report required by any other provision of 
     law regarding the lands withdrawn and reserved under this 
     subtitle.
       ``(3) Public review and comment.--(A) Before the 
     finalization of a report under this subsection, the Secretary 
     of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior shall invite 
     interested members of the public to review and comment on the 
     report, and shall hold at least one public meeting concerning 
     the report in a location or locations reasonably accessible 
     to persons who may be affected by management of the lands 
     withdrawn and reserved under this subtitle.
       ``(B) Each public meeting under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     announced not less than 15 days before the date of the 
     meeting by advertisements in local newspapers of general 
     circulation, notices on the internet, including the website 
     of El Centro, and any other means considered necessary or 
     desirable by the Secretaries.
       ``(4) Distribution of report.--The final version of a 
     report under this subsection shall be made available to the 
     public and submitted to the Committees on Armed Services and 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives.''.
       (c) Juniper Butte Range.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--The Juniper Butte Range Withdrawal Act (title 
     XXIX of Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 2226) is amended--
       (A) in section 2915--
       (i) in the section heading, by striking ``Duration'' and 
     inserting ``Relinquishment'';
       (ii) in subsection (a), by striking ``Termination.--'' and 
     all that follows through ``At the time of termination'' and 
     inserting ``Effect of Relinquishment on Operation of General 
     Land Laws.--Upon relinquishment of Department of the Air 
     Force jurisdiction over lands withdrawn and reserved by this 
     title'';
       (iii) in subsection (b)--

       (I) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Process'' 
     after ``Relinquishment'';
       (II) in paragraph (1), by striking ``under subsection 
     (c)''; and
       (III) in paragraph (3), by striking ``before the date of 
     termination, as provided for in subsection (a)(1)''; and

       (iv) by striking subsection (c); and
       (B) in section 2916--
       (i) in the section heading, by striking ``or upon 
     termination of withdrawal'';
       (ii) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``and in all cases 
     not later than 2 years before the date of termination of 
     withdrawal and reservation,'';
       (iii) in subsection (b), by striking ``environmental 
     remediation'' and all that follows through the end of the 
     subsection and inserting ``environmental remediation before 
     relinquishing, to the Secretary of the Interior, jurisdiction 
     over any lands identified in a notice of intent to relinquish 
     under section 2915(b).''; and
       (iv) in subsection (d)--

       (I) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Terminates'' 
     and inserting ``Relinquished'';
       (II) by striking ``termination date'' both places it 
     appears and inserting ``relinquishment date''; and
       (III) in paragraph (2), by striking ``termination'' and 
     inserting ``relinquishment''.

       (2) Establishment of intergovernmental executive 
     committee.--Section 2910 of the Juniper Butte Range 
     Withdrawal Act (title XXIX of Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 
     2231) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(d) Intergovernmental Executive Committee.--
       ``(1) Establishment and purpose.--The memorandum of 
     understanding under subsection (a) shall be modified as 
     provided in subsection (c) to establish an intergovernmental 
     executive committee for the sole purpose of exchanging views, 
     information, and advice relating to the management of the 
     natural and cultural resources of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved by this title.
       ``(2) Composition.--(A) The Secretary of the Air Force and 
     the Secretary of the Interior shall include representatives 
     from interested Federal agencies as members of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee.
       ``(B) The Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of 
     the Interior shall invite to serve as members of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee--

[[Page H5640]]

       ``(i) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from the government of the State of Idaho; 
     and
       ``(ii) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from each local government and Indian tribal 
     government in the vicinity of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands, as determined by the Secretaries.
       ``(3) Operation.--The intergovernmental executive committee 
     shall operate in accordance with the terms set forth in the 
     memorandum of understanding.
       ``(4) Procedures.--The memorandum of understanding shall 
     establish procedures for creating a forum for exchanging 
     views, information, and advice relating to the management of 
     natural and cultural resources on the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved by this title, procedures for rotating the chair of 
     the intergovernmental executive committee, and procedures for 
     scheduling regular meetings, which shall occur no less 
     frequently than twice a year.
       ``(5) Coordinator.--The Secretary of the Air Force, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall 
     appoint an individual to serve as coordinator of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee. The duties of the 
     coordinator shall be included in the memorandum of 
     understanding. The coordinator shall not be a member of the 
     committee.
       ``(6) Federal advisory committee act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to the 
     intergovernmental executive committee.''.
       (3) Determinations of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation and public reports.--Section 2909 
     of the Juniper Butte Range Withdrawal Act (title XXIX of 
     Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 2230) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
     new sentence: ``The review shall include the determination of 
     the Secretary of the Air Force regarding whether there will 
     be a continuing military need for any or all of the withdrawn 
     and reserved lands for the following 5 years.''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d) Public Reports.--
       ``(1) Changes in land conditions.--(A) Concurrent with each 
     review of an integrated natural resources management plan 
     developed under this section. the Secretary of the Air Force 
     and the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly prepare and 
     issue a report describing any changes in the condition of the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved by this title since the later of 
     the date of any previous report under this paragraph or the 
     date of the environmental analysis prepared to support the 
     actions that changed the condition of the lands.
       ``(B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
     summary of current military use of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved by this title, any changes in military use of the 
     lands since the previous report, and efforts related to the 
     management of natural and cultural resources and 
     environmental remediation of the lands during the previous 5 
     years.
       ``(2) Combination with other reports.--A report under this 
     subsection may be combined with, or incorporate by reference, 
     any contemporary report required by any other provision of 
     law regarding the lands withdrawn and reserved by this title.
       ``(3) Public review and comment.--(A) Before the 
     finalization of a report under this subsection, the Secretary 
     of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     invite interested members of the public to review and comment 
     on the report, and shall hold at least one public meeting 
     concerning the report in a location or locations reasonably 
     accessible to persons who may be affected by management of 
     the lands withdrawn and reserved by this title.
       ``(B) Each public meeting under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     announced not less than 15 days before the date of the 
     meeting by advertisements in local newspapers of general 
     circulation, notices on the internet, including the website 
     of the Juniper Butte Range (if one exists), and any other 
     means considered necessary or desirable by the Secretaries.
       ``(4) Distribution of report.--The final version of a 
     report under this subsection shall be made available to the 
     public and submitted to the Committees on Armed Services and 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives.''.
       (d) Ranges Covered by Subtitle A of Military Lands 
     Withdrawal Act of 1999.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--The Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title 
     XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 885) is amended--
       (A) by striking section 3015;
       (B) by striking section 3016 and inserting the following 
     new section:

     ``SEC. 3016. RELINQUISHMENT.

       ``(a) Notice of Intent Regarding Relinquishment.--If the 
     Secretary of the military department concerned decides to 
     relinquish all or any of the lands withdrawn and reserved by 
     section 3011, such Secretary shall transmit a notice of 
     intent to relinquish such lands to the Secretary of the 
     Interior.
       ``(b) Opening Date.--On the date of relinquishment of the 
     withdrawal and reservation of lands withdrawn and reserved by 
     section 3011, such lands shall not be open to any form of 
     appropriation under the public land laws, including the 
     mineral laws and the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing 
     laws, until the Secretary of the Interior publishes in the 
     Federal Register an appropriate order stating the date upon 
     which such lands shall be restored to the public domain and 
     opened.''; and
       (C) in section 3017--
       (i) by striking ``section 3016(d)'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``section 3016''; and
       (ii) in subsection (e)--

       (I) by striking ``If because'' and everything that follows 
     through ``determines that'' and inserting ``If the Secretary 
     of the Interior declines to accept jurisdiction over lands 
     withdrawn by this subtitle which have been proposed for 
     relinquishment because the Secretary determines that''; and
       (II) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the expiration of the 
     withdrawal of such lands under this subtitle'' and inserting 
     ``such determination''.

       (2) Establishment of intergovernmental executive 
     committees.--Section 3014 of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
     Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 890) 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Intergovernmental Executive Committees.--
       ``(1) Establishment and purpose.--For the lands withdrawn 
     and reserved by section 3011, the Secretary of the military 
     department concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     establish, by memorandum of understanding, an 
     intergovernmental executive committee for each range for the 
     sole purpose of exchanging views, information, and advice 
     relating to the management of the natural and cultural 
     resources of the withdrawn and reserved lands.
       ``(2) Composition.--(A) The Secretary of the military 
     department concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     include representatives from interested Federal agencies as 
     members of the intergovernmental executive committee for a 
     range.
       ``(B) The Secretary of the military department concerned 
     and the Secretary of the Interior shall invite to serve as 
     members of the intergovernmental executive committee for a 
     range--
       ``(i) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from the government of the State in which the 
     withdrawn and reserved lands are located; and
       ``(ii) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from each local government and Indian tribal 
     government in the vicinity of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands, as determined by the Secretaries.
       ``(3) Operation.--The intergovernmental executive committee 
     for a range shall operate in accordance with the terms set 
     forth in the memorandum of understanding.
       ``(4) Procedures.--The memorandum of understanding for a 
     range shall establish procedures for creating a forum for 
     exchanging views, information, and advice relating to the 
     management of natural and cultural resources on the withdrawn 
     and reserved lands, procedures for rotating the chair of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee, and procedures for 
     scheduling regular meetings, which shall occur no less 
     frequently than twice a year.
       ``(5) Coordinator.--The Secretary of the military 
     department concerned, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     the Interior, shall appoint an individual to serve as 
     coordinator of the intergovernmental executive committee for 
     a range. The duties of the coordinator shall be included in 
     the memorandum of understanding. The coordinator shall not be 
     a member of the committee.
       ``(6) Federal advisory committee act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to an 
     intergovernmental executive committee established under this 
     subsection.''.
       (3) Determination of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation and public reports.--The Military 
     Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 
     113 Stat. 885) is further amended by inserting after section 
     3014 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 3015. DETERMINATION OF CONTINUING MILITARY NEED FOR 
                   WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION AND PUBLIC REPORTS.

       ``(a) Determination of Continuing Military Need.--Whenever 
     an integrated natural resources management plan covering the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved under section 3011 is reviewed 
     as to operation and effect as required by section 101(b)(3) 
     of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(b)(2)), but not less often 
     than every five years, the Secretary of the military 
     department concerned shall include the Secretary's 
     determination regarding whether there will be a continuing 
     military need for any or all of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands for the following five years.
       ``(b) Public Reports.--
       ``(1) Changes in land conditions.--(A) Concurrent with each 
     review of an integrated natural resources management plan 
     described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the military 
     department concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     jointly prepare and issue a report describing any changes in 
     the condition of the lands covered by the plan since the 
     later of the date of any previous report under this paragraph 
     or the date of the environmental analysis prepared to support 
     the actions that changed the condition of the lands.
       ``(B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
     summary of current military use of the lands covered by the 
     plan, any changes in military use of the lands since the 
     previous report, and efforts related to the management of 
     natural and cultural resources and environmental remediation 
     of the lands during the previous five years.
       ``(2) Combination with other reports.--A report under this 
     subsection may be combined with, or incorporate by reference, 
     any contemporary report required by any other provision of 
     law regarding the lands covered by the integrated natural 
     resources management plan.
       ``(3) Public review and comment.--(A) Before the 
     finalization of a report under this subsection, the Secretary 
     of the military department concerned and the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall invite interested members of the public to 
     review and comment on the report, and shall

[[Page H5641]]

     hold at least one public meeting concerning the report in a 
     location or locations reasonably accessible to persons who 
     may be affected by management of the lands addressed by the 
     report.
       ``(B) Each public meeting under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     announced not less than 15 days before the date of the 
     meeting by advertisements in local newspapers of general 
     circulation, notices on the internet, including the website 
     of the affected military range (if one exists), and any other 
     means considered necessary or desirable by the Secretaries.
       ``(4) Distribution of report.--The final version of a 
     report under this subsection shall be made available to the 
     public and submitted to the Committees on Armed Services and 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives.''.
       (e) Barry M. Goldwater Range.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--Section 3031 of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
     Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 897) 
     is amended--
       (A) in subsection (c)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, including the 
     duration of any renewal or extension'';
       (ii) in paragraph (2)--

       (I) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``or 
     termination''; and
       (II) in subparagraph (C), by striking the last sentence; 
     and

       (iii) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``or termination''; 
     and
       (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``Duration'' and all 
     that follows through ``of the termination'' and inserting 
     ``Effect of Relinquishment on Operation of General Land 
     Laws.--On the date of relinquishment'';
       (C) by striking subsection (e); and
       (D) in subsection (f)--
       (i) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Termination 
     and'';
       (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``but not later than 
     three years before the termination of the withdrawal and 
     reservation,'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``before the 
     termination date of the withdrawal and reservation of such 
     lands under this section''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``Notwithstanding the 
     termination date, unless'' and inserting ``Unless''.
       (2) Determinations of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation.--Section 3031 of the Military 
     Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 
     113 Stat. 897) is further amended by inserting after 
     subsection (d) the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Periodic Determination of Continuing Military Need.--
     Whenever an integrated natural resources management plan 
     covering the lands withdrawn and reserved under this section 
     is reviewed as to operation and effect as required by section 
     101(b)(3) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(b)(2)), but not 
     less often than every five years, the Secretary of the Navy 
     and the Secretary of the Air Force shall include the 
     Secretary's determination regarding whether there will be a 
     continuing military need for any or all of the withdrawn and 
     reserved lands for the following five years.''.
       (3) Use of definitions.--Section 3031(c)(5) of the Military 
     Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 
     113 Stat. 907) is amended by striking subparagraphs (A) and 
     (B) and inserting the following:
       ``(A) The term `military munitions' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 101(e)(4) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       ``(B) The term `unexploded ordnance' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 101(e)(5) of such title.''.
       (f) National Training Center.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--The Fort Irwin Military Land Withdrawal Act of 
     2001 (title XXIX of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1335) is 
     amended--
       (A) in section 2910, by striking the section heading and 
     all that follows through ``At the time of the termination'' 
     and inserting the following:

     ``SEC. 2910. EFFECT OF RELINQUISHMENT ON OPERATION OF GENERAL 
                   LAND LAWS.

       ``On the date of relinquishment'';
       (B) by striking section 2911; and
       (C) in section 2912--
       (i) in the section heading, by striking ``Termination 
     and'';
       (ii) in subsection (a), by striking ``During the first 22 
     years of the withdrawal and reservation made by this title, 
     if'' and inserting ``If'';
       (iii) in subsection (c), by striking ``before the 
     termination date of the withdrawal and reservation''; and
       (iv) in subsection (d), by striking ``Notwithstanding the 
     termination date specified in section 2910, unless'' and 
     inserting ``Unless''.
       (2) Determination of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation and public reports.--The Fort 
     Irwin Military Land Withdrawal Act of 2001 (title XXIX of 
     Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1335) is further amended by 
     inserting after section 2910 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 2911. DETERMINATION OF CONTINUING MILITARY NEED FOR 
                   WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION AND PUBLIC REPORTS.

       ``(a) Periodic Determination of Continuing Need.--Whenever 
     an integrated natural resources management plan covering the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved under this title is reviewed as 
     to operation and effect as required by section 101(b)(3) of 
     the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(b)(2)), but not less often than 
     every five years, the Secretary of the Army shall include in 
     the plan the Secretary's determination regarding whether 
     there will be a continuing military need for any or all of 
     the withdrawn and reserved lands for the following five 
     years.
       ``(b) Public Reports.--
       ``(1) Changes in land conditions.--(A) Concurrent with each 
     review of an integrated natural resources management plan 
     described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army and 
     the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly prepare and issue 
     a report describing any changes in the condition of the lands 
     withdrawn and reserved by this title since the later of the 
     date of any previous report under this paragraph or the date 
     of the environmental analysis prepared to support the actions 
     that changed the condition of the lands.
       ``(B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
     summary of current military use of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved by this title, any changes in military use of the 
     lands since the previous report, and efforts related to the 
     management of natural and cultural resources and 
     environmental remediation of the lands during the previous 
     five years.
       ``(2) Combination with other reports.--A report under this 
     subsection may be combined with, or incorporate by reference, 
     any contemporary report required by any other provision of 
     law regarding the lands withdrawn and reserved by this title.
       ``(3) Public review and comment.--(A) Before the 
     finalization of a report under this subsection, the Secretary 
     of the Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall invite 
     interested members of the public to review and comment on the 
     report, and shall hold at least one public meeting concerning 
     the report in a location or locations reasonably accessible 
     to persons who may be affected by management of the lands 
     withdrawn and reserved by this title.
       ``(B) Each public meeting under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     announced not less than 15 days before the date of the 
     meeting by advertisements in local newspapers of general 
     circulation, notices on the internet, including the website 
     of National Training Range, and any other means considered 
     necessary or desirable by the Secretaries.
       ``(4) Distribution of report.--The final version of a 
     report under this subsection shall be made available to the 
     public and submitted to the Committees on Armed Services and 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives.''.
       (3) Establishment of intergovernmental executive 
     committee.--The Fort Irwin Military Land Withdrawal Act of 
     2001 (title XXIX of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1335) is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:

     ``SEC. 2914. INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

       ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--The Secretary of the Army 
     and the Secretary of the Interior shall establish, by 
     memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental executive 
     committee for the sole purpose of exchanging views, 
     information, and advice relating to the management of the 
     natural and cultural resources of the lands withdrawn and 
     reserved by this title.
       ``(b) Composition.--
       ``(1) Representatives of other federal agencies.--The 
     Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     include representatives from interested Federal agencies as 
     members of the intergovernmental executive committee.
       ``(2) Representatives of state and local governments.--The 
     Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     invite to serve as members of the intergovernmental executive 
     committee--
       ``(A) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from the government of the State of 
     California; and
       ``(B) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from each local government and Indian tribal 
     government in the vicinity of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands, as determined by the Secretaries.
       ``(c) Operation.--The intergovernmental executive committee 
     shall operate in accordance with the terms set forth in the 
     memorandum of understanding under subsection (a).
       ``(d) Procedures.--The memorandum of understanding under 
     subsection (a) shall establish procedures for creating a 
     forum for exchanging views, information, and advice relating 
     to the management of natural and cultural resources on the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved by this title, procedures for 
     rotating the chair of the intergovernmental executive 
     committee, and procedures for scheduling regular meetings, 
     which shall occur no less frequently than twice a year.
       ``(e) Coordinator.--The Secretary of the Army, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall 
     appoint an individual to serve as coordinator of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee. The duties of the 
     coordinator shall be included in the memorandum of 
     understanding under subsection (a). The coordinator shall not 
     be a member of the committee.
       ``(f) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to the 
     intergovernmental executive committee.''.
       (g) Ranges Covered by Military Land Withdrawals Act of 
     2013.--
       (1) Elimination of termination date and conforming 
     amendments.--The Military Land Withdrawals Act of 2013 (title 
     XXIX of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1025) is amended--
       (A) by striking sections 2919, 2920; 2936, 2946, and 2979;
       (B) in section 2921, by striking ``On the termination of'' 
     and inserting ``On the relinquishment of''; and
       (C) in section 2922(d)(3)--
       (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``on 
     termination'' and inserting ``upon relinquishment''; and
       (ii) by striking ``or if at the expiration of the 
     withdrawal and reservation,''.
       (2) Establishment of intergovernmental executive 
     committee.--The Military Land

[[Page H5642]]

     Withdrawals Act of 2013 (title XXIX of Public Law 113-66; 127 
     Stat. 1025) is further amended by inserting after section 
     2918 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 2919. INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

       ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--For the lands withdrawn 
     and reserved by sections 2931, 2941, and 2971, the Secretary 
     concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall establish, 
     by memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental 
     executive committee for each location for the sole purpose of 
     exchanging views, information, and advice relating to the 
     management of the natural and cultural resources of the 
     withdrawn and reserved lands.
       ``(b) Composition.--
       ``(1) Representatives of other federal agencies.--The 
     Secretary concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     include representatives from interested Federal agencies as 
     members of the intergovernmental executive committee for a 
     location covered by subsection (a).
       ``(2) Representatives of state and local governments.--The 
     Secretary concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     invite to serve as members of the intergovernmental executive 
     committee for a location covered by subsection (a)--
       ``(A) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from the government of the State in which the 
     withdrawn and reserved lands are located; and
       ``(B) at least one elected officer (or other authorized 
     representative) from each local government and Indian tribal 
     government in the vicinity of the withdrawn and reserved 
     lands, as determined by the Secretaries.
       ``(c) Operation.--The intergovernmental executive committee 
     for a location covered by subsection (a) shall operate in 
     accordance with the terms set forth in the memorandum of 
     understanding under subsection (a).
       ``(d) Procedures.--The memorandum of understanding under 
     subsection (a) shall establish procedures for creating a 
     forum for exchanging views, information, and advice relating 
     to the management of natural and cultural resources on the 
     withdrawn and reserved lands, procedures for rotating the 
     chair of the intergovernmental executive committee, and 
     procedures for scheduling regular meetings, which shall occur 
     no less frequently than twice a year.
       ``(e) Coordinator.--The Secretary concerned, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall 
     appoint an individual to serve as coordinator of the 
     intergovernmental executive committee for a location covered 
     by subsection (a). The duties of the coordinator shall be 
     included in the memorandum of understanding under subsection 
     (a). The coordinator shall not be a member of the committee.
       ``(f) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to a 
     intergovernmental executive committee for a location covered 
     by subsection (a).''.
       (3) Determination of continuing military need for 
     withdrawal and reservation and public reports.--The Military 
     Land Withdrawals Act of 2013 (title XXIX of Public Law 113-
     66; 127 Stat. 1025) is further amended by inserting after 
     section 2919, as added by paragraph (2), the following new 
     section:

     ``SEC. 2920. DETERMINATION OF CONTINUING MILITARY NEED FOR 
                   WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION AND PUBLIC REPORTS.

       ``(a) Periodic Determination of Continuing Need.--Whenever 
     an integrated natural resources management plan covering the 
     lands withdrawn and reserved under a subtitle of this title 
     is reviewed as to operation and effect as required by section 
     101(b)(3) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a(b)(2)), but not 
     less often than every five years, the Secretary concerned 
     shall include in the plan the Secretary's determination 
     regarding whether there will be a continuing military need 
     for any or all of the withdrawn and reserved lands for the 
     following five years.
       ``(b) Public Reports.--
       ``(1) Changes in land conditions.--(A) Concurrent with each 
     review of an integrated natural resources management plan 
     described in subsection (a), the Secretary concerned and the 
     Secretary of the Interior shall jointly prepare and issue a 
     report describing any changes in the condition of the lands 
     covered by the plan since the later of the date of any 
     previous report under this paragraph or the date of the 
     environmental analysis prepared to support the actions that 
     changed the condition of the lands.
       ``(B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
     summary of current military use of the lands covered by the 
     plan, any changes in military use of the lands since the 
     previous report, and efforts related to the management of 
     natural and cultural resources and environmental remediation 
     of the lands during the previous five years.
       ``(2) Combination with other reports.--A report under this 
     subsection may be combined with, or incorporate by reference, 
     any contemporary report required by any other provision of 
     law regarding the lands addressed by the report.
       ``(3) Public review and comment.--(A) Before the 
     finalization of a report under this subsection, the Secretary 
     concerned and the Secretary of the Interior shall invite 
     interested members of the public to review and comment on the 
     report, and shall hold at least one public meeting concerning 
     the report in a location or locations reasonably accessible 
     to persons who may be affected by management of the lands 
     addressed by the report.
       ``(B) Each public meeting under subparagraph (A) shall be 
     announced not less than 15 days before the date of the 
     meeting by advertisements in local newspapers of general 
     circulation, notices on the internet, including the website 
     of the affected military range (if one exists), and any other 
     means considered necessary or desirable by the Secretaries.
       ``(4) Distribution of report.--The final version of a 
     report under this subsection shall be made available to the 
     public and submitted to the Committees on Armed Services and 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Armed Services and Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives.''.
       (h) Effect on New Land Withdrawals and Reservations.--
     Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this 
     section shall be construed as changing the requirements 
     imposed on the Department of Defense to obtain a new or 
     expanded land withdrawal and reservation.

     SEC. 2832. TEMPORARY SEGREGATION FROM PUBLIC LAND LAWS OF 
                   PROPERTY SUBJECT TO PROPOSED MILITARY LAND 
                   WITHDRAWAL; TEMPORARY USE PERMITS AND TRANSFERS 
                   OF SMALL PARCELS OF LAND BETWEEN DEPARTMENTS OF 
                   INTERIOR AND MILITARY DEPARTMENTS; MORE 
                   EFFICIENT SURVEYING OF LANDS.

       (a) Temporary Segregation of Military Land From Public Land 
     Laws Under Request for Withdrawal Made to Secretary of the 
     Interior.--Section 3 of the Act of February 28, 1958 (Public 
     Law 85-337; 43 U.S.C. 157), is amended--
       (1) by striking ``Any application'' and inserting ``(a) 
     Contents of Application.--Any application'';
       (2) by striking ``shall specify'' and inserting ``shall be 
     filed with the Secretary of the Interior and shall specify''; 
     and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Temporary Segregation From Public Land Laws.--
       ``(1) Public notice.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the receipt of an application under subsection (a) for a 
     withdrawal or reservation, the Secretary of the Interior 
     shall publish a notice in the Federal Register stating that 
     the application has been submitted, identifying the land that 
     is the subject of the application, and stating the extent to 
     which the land is to be segregated in accordance with 
     paragraph (2).
       ``(2) Segregation from public land laws.--Upon publication 
     of a notice under paragraph (1), the land identified in the 
     notice shall be segregated from the operation of the public 
     land laws to the extent specified in the notice. The 
     segregation of such land pursuant to such notice shall 
     terminate upon the earlier of--
       ``(A) the enactment of some or all of the withdrawal or 
     reservation by Congress; or
       ``(B) the expiration of the 7-year period which begins on 
     the date of the publication of the notice.
       ``(3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `public 
     land laws' includes the mining laws, the mineral leasing 
     laws, and the geothermal leasing laws.''.
       (b) Authorization of Additional Arrangements for Use and 
     Transfer of Lands Under Jurisdiction of Secretary of the 
     Interior.--Such Act (43 U.S.C. 155 et seq.) is further 
     amended by adding at the end the following new sections:

     ``SEC. 7. SHORT-TERM PERMITS FOR USE OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   INTERIOR LANDS FOR MILITARY TRAINING AND 
                   TESTING.

       ``(a) Authority.--In addition to any other authority to 
     grant permits for the use of land, the Secretary of the 
     Interior may grant a permit to the Secretary of Defense to 
     use land under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary of the Interior. Any such permit--
       ``(1) shall be issued consistent with section 2691 of title 
     10, United States Code;
       ``(2) shall allow the Department of Defense to use the land 
     only for purposes of training and testing that are consistent 
     with the purposes for which the Secretary of the Interior 
     manages the land; and
       ``(3) may contain such other requirements as the Secretary 
     of the Interior considers appropriate.
       ``(b) Duration of Permit.--A permit granted under this 
     section shall be in effect for such period as the Secretary 
     of the Interior may provide, except that such period may not 
     exceed 30 days.

     ``SEC. 8. TRANSFERS OF SMALL PARCELS OF LAND BETWEEN THE 
                   DEPARTMENTS OF DEFENSE AND INTERIOR.

       ``(a) Transfer Authorized.--Subject to any valid existing 
     rights, upon mutual agreement, and without cost for the value 
     of the land or any improvements thereon--
       ``(1) the Secretary of the Interior may transfer 
     administrative jurisdiction over land that meets the 
     requirements of subsection (b) to the Secretary of a military 
     department; and
       ``(2) the Secretary of a military department may transfer 
     administrative jurisdiction over land that meets the 
     requirements of subsection (b) to the Secretary of the 
     Interior.
       ``(b) Requirements for Land Eligible for Transfer.--The 
     requirements of this subsection are as follows:
       ``(1) Contiguity.--The land is contiguous to land already 
     under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary to 
     whom such jurisdiction is transferred.
       ``(2) Limitation on acreage.--No single parcel of the land 
     is larger than 5,000 acres of contiguous area.
       ``(3) No recent prior transfer of contiguous land.--The 
     land is not contiguous to any other land for which 
     administrative jurisdiction has been transferred under the 
     authority of this section during the previous 5 years.
       ``(4) Prior use for defense purposes.--In the case of land 
     transferred to the Department of Defense, the land was used 
     for defense purposes immediately prior to the date of 
     transfer.
       ``(c) Map and Legal Description.--
       ``(1) Preparation and publication.--The Secretary of the 
     Interior shall--
       ``(A) publish in the Federal Register a notice containing 
     the legal description of any land transferred under 
     subsection (a);

[[Page H5643]]

       ``(B) file maps and legal descriptions of the land with--
       ``(i) the Committees on Armed Services and Energy and 
     Natural Resources of the Senate, and
       ``(ii) the Committees on Armed Services and Natural 
     Resources of the House of Representatives; and
       ``(C) make copies of such maps and legal descriptions 
     available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
     the Bureau of Land Management.
       ``(2) Force of law.--For purposes of any transfer of 
     administrative jurisdiction over land under this section, the 
     legal description and map for the land shall be the legal 
     description of the land filed under paragraph (1)(B), except 
     that the Secretary of the Interior may correct clerical and 
     typographical errors in the legal description or map.
       ``(d) Treatment and Use of Land Transferred to the 
     Secretary of a Military Department.--Upon a transfer of 
     administrative jurisdiction over land to the Secretary of a 
     military department under subsection (a)--
       ``(1) the land shall be treated as property (as defined in 
     section 102(9) of title 40, United States Code) under the 
     administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the military 
     department; and
       ``(2) the land shall be withdrawn from all forms of 
     appropriation under the public land laws, including the 
     mining laws, the mineral leasing laws, and the geothermal 
     leasing laws, for as long as the land is under the 
     administrative jurisdiction of a Secretary of a military 
     department.
       ``(e) Treatment and Use of Land Transferred to the 
     Secretary of the Interior.--Upon a transfer of administrative 
     jurisdiction over land to the Secretary of the Interior under 
     subsection (a)--
       ``(1) the land shall become public land; and
       ``(2) the land shall be administered for the same purposes 
     and be subject to the same conditions of use as the adjacent 
     public land.
       ``(f) Effect on Other Authorities.--The authority provided 
     by this section is in addition to, and not subject to, any 
     other authority relating to transfers of land.''.
       (c) Short Title.--Section 1 of such Act (43 U.S.C. 155) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting ``(a) 
     Withdrawal, Reservation, or Restriction of Public Lands for 
     Defense Purposes.--Notwithstanding''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the `Engle 
     Act'.''.
       (d) Promoting More Efficient Surveying of Lands.--In fixing 
     the original corner position in an official survey of 
     unsurveyed land, when applicable and feasible, Cadastral 
     Surveys may, instead of using physical monuments, use 
     geographic coordinates correlated to the National Spatial 
     Reference System geodetic datum, in accordance with the 
     Manual of Surveying Instructions.

         Subtitle E--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

     SEC. 2841. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF 
                   VETERANS MEMORIAL OBJECTS TO FOREIGN 
                   GOVERNMENTS WITHOUT SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION IN 
                   LAW.

       (a) Description of Objects.--Paragraph (2)(B)(iii) of 
     section 2572(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``from abroad'' and inserting ``from abroad 
     before 1907''.
       (b) Extension of Prohibition.--Paragraph (3)(B) of section 
     2572(e) of such title is amended by striking ``September 30, 
     2017'' and inserting ``September 30, 2022''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect October 1, 2017.

     SEC. 2842. RECOGNITION OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF WORLD WAR II 
                   AVIATION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) World War II was one of the most important events in 
     the history of the Nation, a time of common purpose that 
     remains today as an inspiration to all people in the United 
     States.
       (2) The role of aviation was a critical factor in the 
     success of winning World War II and defeating the enemies 
     worldwide.
       (3) The bravery, courage, dedication, and heroism of World 
     War II aviators and support personnel were decisive in 
     winning World War II.
       (4) The National Museum of World War II Aviation in 
     Colorado Springs, Colorado, is the only museum in the United 
     States that exists to exclusively preserve and promote an 
     understanding of the role of aviation in winning World War 
     II.
       (5) The National Museum of World War II Aviation is 
     dedicated to celebrating the spirit of the United States, 
     recognizing the teamwork, collaboration, patriotism, and 
     courage of the men and women who fought, as well as those on 
     the homefront who mobilized and supported the national 
     aviation effort.
       (b) Recognition.--The National Museum of World War II 
     Aviation in Colorado Springs, Colorado, is recognized as 
     America's National World War II Aviation Museum.
       (c) Effect of Recognition.--The National Museum recognized 
     by this section is not a unit of the National Park System, 
     and the recognition of the National Museum shall not be 
     construed to require or permit Federal funds to be expended 
     for any purpose related to the National Museum.

     SEC. 2843. PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF AVIATION HALL OF FAME.

       Section 23107 of title 36, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking ``Dayton,'' and all that follows through 
     ``trustees'' and inserting ``Ohio''.

               Subtitle F--Shiloh National Military Park

     SEC. 2851. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Shiloh National 
     Military Park Boundary Adjustment and Parker's Crossroads 
     Battlefield Designation Act''.

     SEC. 2852. DEFINITIONS.

       In this subtitle, the following definitions apply:
       (1) Affiliated area.--The term ``affiliated area'' means 
     the Parker's Crossroads Battlefield established as an 
     affiliated area of the National Park System under section 
     2854.
       (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means Shiloh National Military 
     Park, a unit of the National Park System.
       (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of the Interior.

     SEC. 2853. AREAS TO BE ADDED TO SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY 
                   PARK.

       (a) Additional Areas.--The boundary of Shiloh National 
     Military Park is modified to include the areas that are 
     generally depicted on the map entitled ``Shiloh National 
     Military Park, Proposed Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 304/
     80,011, and dated July 2014, as follows:
       (1) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
       (2) Russell House Battlefield.
       (3) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
       (b) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire lands 
     described in subsection (a) by donation, purchase from 
     willing sellers with donated or appropriated funds, or 
     exchange.
       (c) Administration.--Any lands acquired under this section 
     shall be administered as part of the Park.

     SEC. 2854. ESTABLISHMENT OF AFFILIATED AREA.

       (a) In General.--Parker's Crossroads Battlefield in the 
     State of Tennessee is hereby established as an affiliated 
     area of the National Park System.
       (b) Description.--The affiliated area shall consist of the 
     area generally depicted within the ``Proposed Boundary'' on 
     the map entitled ``Parker's Crossroads Battlefield, Proposed 
     Boundary'', numbered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
       (c) Administration.--The affiliated area shall be managed 
     in accordance with this subtitle and all laws generally 
     applicable to units of the National Park System.
       (d) Management Entity.--The City of Parkers Crossroads and 
     the Tennessee Historical Commission shall jointly be the 
     management entity for the affiliated area.
       (e) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may provide 
     technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements 
     with the management entity for the purpose of providing 
     financial assistance with marketing, marking, interpretation, 
     and preservation of the affiliated area.
       (f) Limited Role of the Secretary.--Nothing in this Act 
     authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the 
     affiliated area or to assume overall financial responsibility 
     for the operation, maintenance, or management of the 
     affiliated area.
       (g) General Management Plan.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
     management entity, shall develop a general management plan 
     for the affiliated area. The plan shall be prepared in 
     accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States 
     Code.
       (2) Transmittal.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
     that funds are made available for this subtitle, the 
     Secretary shall provide a copy of the completed general 
     management plan to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources of the Senate.

     SEC. 2855. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

       (a) No Use of Condemnation.--The Secretary of the Interior 
     may not acquire by condemnation any land or interests in land 
     under this subtitle or for the purposes of this subtitle.
       (b) Written Consent of Owner.--No non-Federal property may 
     be included in the Shiloh National Military Park without the 
     written consent of the owner.
       (c) No Buffer Zone Created.--Nothing in this subtitle, the 
     establishment of the Shiloh National Military Park, or the 
     management plan for the Shiloh National Military Park shall 
     be construed to create buffer zones outside of the Park. That 
     activities or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from areas 
     within the Shiloh National Military Park shall not preclude, 
     limit, control, regulate, or determine the conduct or 
     management of activities or uses outside of the Park.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

     SEC. 2861. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GUIDANCE ON 
                   USE OF AIRFIELD PAVEMENT MARKINGS.

       (a) Modification Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     require such modifications of Unified Facilities Guide 
     Specifications for pavement markings (UFGS 32 17 23.00 20 
     Pavement Markings, UFGS 32 17 24.00 10 Pavement Markings), 
     Air Force Engineering Technical Letter ETL 97-18 (Guide 
     Specification for Airfield and Roadway Marking), and any 
     other Department of Defense guidance on airfield pavement 
     markings as may be necessary to prohibit the use of Type I 
     glass beads or any glass beads with a 1.6 refractive index or 
     less from use on airfield markings on airfields under the 
     control of the Secretary.
       (b) Effective Date.--The modifications required under 
     subsection (a) shall apply with respect to procurements 
     occurring after September 30, 2018.

     SEC. 2862. AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF ARMED 
                   FORCES RETIREMENT HOME TO ACQUIRE AND LEASE 
                   PROPERTY.

       (a) Acquisition of Property.--Section 1511(e) of the Armed 
     Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(e)) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense may acquire,'' and 
     inserting ``Chief Operating Officer may acquire,''; and

[[Page H5644]]

       (B) by striking ``Secretary may acquire'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer may acquire''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense determines'' and 
     inserting ``Chief Operating Officer determines''; and
       (B) by striking ``Secretary shall dispose'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer shall dispose''.
       (b) Leasing of Non-excess Property.--Subsection (i) of 
     section 1511 of such Act (24 U.S.C. 411(i)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense (acting on behalf of 
     the Chief Operating Officer)'' and inserting ``Chief 
     Operating Officer''; and
       (B) by striking ``Secretary considers'' and inserting 
     ``Chief Operating Officer considers'';
       (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``the Secretary of 
     Defense may not enter into the lease on behalf of the Chief 
     Operating Officer'' and inserting ``the Chief Operating 
     Officer may not enter into the lease''; and
       (3) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (6), by striking 
     ``Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``Chief Operating 
     Officer''.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

     SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.

       The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction projects for the 
     installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, 
     set forth in the following table:

                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Country                 Installation           Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Cuba...........................  Guantanamo........  $115,000,000
Turkey..........................  Various Locations.  $6,400,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECT.

       The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction project for the 
     installation outside the United States, and in the amount, 
     set forth in the following table:

                     Navy: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Country                 Installation           Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Djibouti.......................  Camp Lemonnier....  $13,390,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

       The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property 
     and carry out the military construction projects for the 
     installations outside the United States, and in the amounts, 
     set forth in the following table:

                  Air Force: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Country                 Installation           Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Estonia........................  Amari Air Base....  $13,900,000
Hungary.........................  Kecskemet Air Base  $55,400,000
Iceland.........................  Keflavik..........  $14,400,000
Italy...........................  Aviano AB.........  $27,325,000
Jordan..........................  Azraq.............  $143,000,000
Latvia..........................  Lielvarde Air Base  $3,850,000
Luxembourg......................  Sanem.............  $67,400,000
Norway..........................  Rygge.............  $10,300,000
Qatar...........................  Al Udeid..........  $15,000,000
Romania.........................  Campia Turzii.....  $2,950,000
Slovakia........................  Malacky...........  $24,000,000
                                  Sliac Airport.....  $22,000,000
Turkey..........................  Incirlik Air Base.  $48,697,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECT.

       The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and 
     carry out the military construction project for the 
     installation outside the United States, and in the amount, 
     set forth in the following table:

               Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Country                 Installation           Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy...........................  Sigonella.........  $22,400,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SEC. 2905. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 2017, for the military 
     construction projects outside the United States authorized by 
     this title as specified in the funding table in section 4602.

     SEC. 2906. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   2015 PROJECTS.

       (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
     (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the 
     authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as 
     provided in section 2902 of that Act (128 Stat. 3717), shall 
     remain in effect until October 1, 2018, or the date of the 
     enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
     construction for fiscal year 2019, whichever is later.
       (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as 
     follows:

[[Page H5645]]



                             Extension of 2015 Air Force OCO Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                         Installation                   Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Italy.................................  Camp Darby................  ERI: Improve Weapons            $44,450,000
                                                                      Storage Facility.
Poland.................................   Lask Air Base............  ERI: Improve Support            $22,400,000
                                                                      Infrastructure.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

     SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby 
     authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the activities of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified 
     in the funding table in division D.
       (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds 
     referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying 
     out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new 
     plant projects for the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration as follows:
       Project 18-D-150, Surplus Plutonium Disposition, Savannah 
     River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $9,000,000.
       Project 18-D-620, Exascale Computing Facility Modernization 
     Project, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, 
     California, $3,000,000.
       Project 18-D-650, Tritium Production Capability, Savannah 
     River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $6,800,000.
       Project 18-D-660, Fire Station, Y-12 National Security 
     Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $28,000,000.
       Project 18-D-670, Exascale Class Computer Cooling 
     Equipment, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
     Mexico, $22,000,000.
       Project 18-D-680, Material Staging Facility, Pantex Plant, 
     Amarillo, Texas, $5,200,000.
       Project 18-D-920, KL Fuel Development Laboratory, Knolls 
     Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $1,000,000.
       Project 18-D-921, KS Overhead Piping, Kesselring Site, West 
     Milton, New York, $6,688,000.
       Project 18-D-922, BL Component Test Complex, Bettis Atomic 
     Power Laboratory, West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, $3,000,000.

     SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 
     for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out 
     programs as specified in the funding table in division D.
       (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds 
     referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying 
     out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new 
     plant projects for the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration as follows:
       Project 18-D-401, Saltstone Disposal Units #8 and #9, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $500,000.
       Project 18-D-402, Emergency Operations Center Replacement, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $500,000.
       Project 18-D-404, Modification of Waste Encapsulation and 
     Storage Facility, Hanford Site, Richland, Washington, 
     $6,500,000.

     SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for other defense 
     activities in carrying out programs as specified in the 
     funding table in division D.

     SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 2018 for nuclear energy 
     as specified in the funding table in division D.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

     SEC. 3111. NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE INFRASTRUCTURE 
                   RECAPITALIZATION AND REPAIR.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On September 7, 2016, during testimony before the 
     Subcommittee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives--
       (A) the Administrator for Nuclear Security, Frank Klotz, 
     said--
       (i) ``Our infrastructure is extensive, complex, and, in 
     many critical areas, several decades old. More than half of 
     NNSA's approximately 6,000 real property assets are over 40 
     years old, and nearly 30 percent date back to the Manhattan 
     Project era. Many of the enterprise's critical utility, 
     safety, and support systems are failing at an increasing and 
     unpredictable rate, which poses both programmatic and safety 
     risk.''; and
       (ii) ``I can think of no greater threat to the nuclear 
     security enterprise than the state of NNSA's 
     infrastructure.'';
       (B) the President and Chief Executive Officer of 
     Consolidated Nuclear Security, Morgan Smith, said, ``Many key 
     facilities at both [Pantex and Y-12] were constructed in the 
     1940s and were intended to operate for as little as one 
     decade. Many facilities and their supporting infrastructure 
     have exceeded or far exceeded their expected life, and major 
     systems within the facilities are beginning to fail.''; and
       (C) the Director of Los Alamos National Laboratory, Dr. 
     Charlie McMillan, said, ``One of the things that keeps me up 
     at night is the realization that essential capabilities are 
     held at risk by the possibility of such failures; in many 
     cases, our enterprise has a single point of failure.''.
       (2) In a letter sent on December 23, 2015, by the Secretary 
     of Energy, Ernest Moniz, to the Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, Shaun Donovan, the Secretary said, ``A 
     majority of the National Nuclear Security Administration's 
     (NNSA) facilities and systems are well beyond end-of-life. . 
     . Infrastructure problems such as falling ceilings are 
     increasing in frequency and severity, unacceptably risking 
     the safety and security of both personnel and material at 
     NNSA facilities, as well as in some instances, potential 
     offsite risks. The entire complex could be placed at risk if 
     there is a single failure where a single point would disrupt 
     a critical link in infrastructure.''.
       (3) The Nuclear Posture Review published in April 2010 
     stated that ``In order to sustain a safe, secure, and 
     effective U.S. nuclear stockpile as long as nuclear weapons 
     exist, the United States must possess a modern physical 
     infrastructure. . . Today's nuclear complex, however, has 
     fallen into neglect. Although substantial science, 
     technology, and engineering investments were made over the 
     last decade under the auspices of the Stockpile Stewardship 
     Program, the complex still includes many oversized and 
     costly-to maintain facilities built during the 1940s and 
     1950s. Some facilities needed for working with plutonium and 
     uranium date back to the Manhattan Project. Safety, security, 
     and environmental issues associated with these aging 
     facilities are mounting, as are the costs of addressing 
     them.''.
       (4) In 2009, the bipartisan Congressional Commission on the 
     Strategic Posture of the United States established by section 
     1062 of the National Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 
     2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 319) stated, with regards 
     to key production facilities, that ``existing facilities are 
     genuinely decrepit and are maintained in a safe and secure 
     manner only at high cost''.
       (5) Previous efforts to address the deferred maintenance 
     and repair challenges within the nuclear security enterprise, 
     such as the Facilities Infrastructure and Recapitalization 
     Program and the recent halt in the growth of backlog metrics, 
     are laudable but insufficient for the magnitude of the 
     problem.
       (6) Recent figures provided by the Administrator for 
     Nuclear Security estimate the backlog of deferred maintenance 
     and repair needs of the nuclear security enterprise to be 
     approximately $3,700,000,000.
       (b) Facilities and Infrastructure Recapitalization and 
     Repair Program.--
       (1) Establishment.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall establish and carry out a program known as the 
     Facilities and Infrastructure Recapitalization and Repair 
     Program to reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance and 
     repair needs of the nuclear security enterprise (as defined 
     in section 4002(6) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
     U.S.C. 2501(6)). The Administrator shall ensure that, by not 
     later than five years after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, the program achieves the goal of reducing such backlog 
     of deferred maintenance and repair needs by 50 percent.
       (2) Authorities.--
       (A) Process.--
       (i) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall provide to 
     the Administrator a process that will enhance or streamline 
     the ability of the Administrator to carry out the program 
     under paragraph (1) in an efficient and effective manner, 
     including with respect to--

       (I) the demolition or construction of non-nuclear 
     facilities of the Administration that have a total estimated 
     project cost of less than $100,000,000; and
       (II) the decontamination, decommissioning, and demolition 
     (to be performed in accordance with applicable health and 
     safety standards used by the Defense Environmental Cleanup 
     Program) of process-contaminated facilities of the 
     Administration that have a total estimated project cost of 
     less than $50,000,000.

       (ii) Funding.--Clause (i) may be carried out using amounts 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 or any 
     subsequent fiscal year.
       (B) Application of certain requirements.--For purposes of 
     the Management Procedures Memorandum 2015-01 of the Office of 
     Management and Budget, or such successor memorandum, in 
     carrying out the program under paragraph (1), the 
     Administrator may--
       (i) perform new construction during a fiscal year that 
     differs from the fiscal year of corresponding facility 
     demolition;
       (ii) perform demolition of different facility category 
     codes and have that demolition credit count towards the 
     construction of new facilities with a different facility 
     category code; and

[[Page H5646]]

       (iii) have the net reduction in infrastructure footprint 
     for the five fiscal years prior to the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, and the demolition during the five fiscal years 
     following such date of enactment, considered as a factor for 
     the purpose of meeting the intent of such memorandum.
       (3) Plan.--Together with the budget of the President 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary and 
     the Administrator shall jointly submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     a plan to carry out the program under paragraph (1) to 
     achieve the goal specified in such paragraph. Such plan shall 
     include--
       (A) the funding required to carry out the program during 
     the period covered by the future-years nuclear security 
     program under section 3253 of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2453);
       (B) the criteria for selecting and prioritizing projects 
     within the program under paragraph (1);
       (C) mechanisms for ensuring the robust management and 
     oversight of such projects;
       (D) a description of the process provided to the 
     Administrator to carry out the program pursuant to paragraph 
     (2)(A);
       (E) a description of any legislative actions the Secretary 
     recommends to further enhance or streamline authorities or 
     processes relating to the program; and
       (F) a certification by the Secretary that such budget will 
     enable the program to meet the goal specified in paragraph 
     (1).
       (4) Termination.--The Administrator shall terminate the 
     program under paragraph (1) on the date that is five years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (c) Inclusion in Biennial Detailed Report.--Section 
     4203(d)(4) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523) 
     is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
     inserting a semicolon;
       (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D)(i) a description of--
       ``(I) the metrics (based on industry best practices) used 
     by the Administrator to determine the infrastructure deferred 
     maintenance and repair needs of the nuclear security 
     enterprise; and
       ``(II) the percentage of replacement plant value being 
     spent on maintenance and repair needs of the nuclear security 
     enterprise; and
       ``(ii) an explanation of whether the annual spending on 
     such needs complies with the recommendation of the National 
     Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences, 
     Engineering, and Medicine that such spending be in an amount 
     equal to four percent of the replacement plant value, and, if 
     not, the reasons for such noncompliance and a plan for how 
     the Administrator will ensure facilities of the nuclear 
     security enterprise are being properly sustained.''.
       (d) Requirements Relating to Critical Decisions.--
       (1) In general.--Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4715. MATTERS RELATING TO CRITICAL DECISIONS.

       ``(a) Post-critical Decision 2 Changes.--After the date on 
     which a plant project specifically authorized by law achieves 
     critical decision 2, the Administrator may not change the 
     requirements for such project if such change increases the 
     scope, schedule, or budget of such project unless--
       ``(1) the Administrator submits to the congressional 
     defense committees--
       ``(A) a certification that the Administrator, without 
     delegation, authorizes such proposed change; and
       ``(B) a cost-benefit and risk analysis of such proposed 
     change, including with respect to--
       ``(i) the effects of such proposed change on the project 
     cost and schedule; and
       ``(ii) any mission risks and operational risks from making 
     such change or not making such change; and
       ``(2) a period of 15 days elapses following the date of 
     such submission.
       ``(b) Review and Approval.--The Administrator shall ensure 
     that critical decision packages are timely reviewed and 
     either approved or disapproved.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents at the 
     beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 4714 the following new item:

``Sec. 4715. Matters relating to critical decisions.''.
       (e) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the nuclear security enterprise, comprised of the 
     infrastructure and capabilities of the laboratories and 
     plants coupled with the dedicated and talented scientists, 
     engineers, technicians, and administrators who form the 
     backbone of the enterprise, are a central component of the 
     nuclear deterrent of the United States;
       (2) if left unaddressed, the state of the infrastructure 
     within the nuclear security enterprise represents a direct, 
     long-term threat to the credibility of the nuclear deterrent 
     of the United States;
       (3) both Congress and the President must take strong, 
     sustained action to recapitalize and repair this 
     infrastructure;
       (4) the Administrator must continue to carry out 
     expeditious demolition of old facilities of the 
     Administration to reduce long-term costs and improve safety; 
     and
       (5) each budget of the President submitted to Congress 
     under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for 
     fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year thereafter during the 
     life of the program established pursuant to subsection (b)(1) 
     should include funding in an amount sufficient to carry out 
     the program to achieve the goal specified in such subsection.

     SEC. 3112. INCORPORATION OF INTEGRATED SURETY ARCHITECTURE IN 
                   TRANSPORTATION.

       (a) Incorporation.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic 
     Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4222. INCORPORATION OF INTEGRATED SURETY ARCHITECTURE.

       ``(a) Shipments.--(1) The Administrator shall ensure that 
     shipments described in paragraph (2) incorporate surety 
     technologies relating to transportation and shipping 
     developed by the Integrated Surety Architecture program of 
     the Administration.
       ``(2) A shipment described in this paragraph is an over-
     the-road shipment of the Administration that involves any 
     nuclear weapon planned to be in the active stockpile after 
     2025.
       ``(b) Certain Programs.--(1) The Administrator, in 
     coordination with the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons 
     Council, shall ensure that each program described in 
     paragraph (2) incorporate integrated designs compatible with 
     the Integrated Surety Architecture program.
       ``(2) A program described in this subsection is a program 
     of the Administration that is a warhead development program, 
     a life extension program, or a warhead major alteration 
     program.
       ``(c) Determination.--(1) If, on a case-by-case basis, the 
     Administrator determines that a shipment under subsection (a) 
     will not incorporate some or all of the surety technologies 
     described in such subsection, or that a program under 
     subsection (b) will not incorporate some or all of the 
     integrated designs described in such subsection, the 
     Administrator shall submit such determination to the 
     congressional defense committees, including the results of an 
     analysis conducted pursuant to paragraph (2).
       ``(2) Each determination made under paragraph (1) shall be 
     based on a documented, system risk analysis that considers 
     security risk reduction, operational impacts, and technical 
     risk.
       ``(e) Termination.--The requirements of subsections (a) and 
     (b) shall terminate on December 31, 2029.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act 
     is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
     4221 the following new item:

``Sec. 4222. Incorporation of integrated surety architecture.''.
       (c) Implementation of Certain Direction.--The Administrator 
     shall implement the direction relating to this section 
     contained in the classified annex accompanying this Act.

     SEC. 3113. COST ESTIMATES FOR LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAM AND 
                   MAJOR ALTERATION PROJECTS.

       Subsection (b) of section 4217 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
     Act (50 U.S.C. 2537(b)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Independent Cost Estimates and Reviews.--(1) The 
     Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees and the Nuclear Weapons 
     Council the following:
       ``(A) An independent cost estimate of the following:
       ``(i) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life extension 
     at the completion of phase 6.2A, relating to design 
     definition and cost study.
       ``(ii) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life extension 
     at the completion of phase 6.3, relating to development 
     engineering.
       ``(iii) Each nuclear weapon system undergoing life 
     extension at the completion of phase 6.4, relating to 
     production engineering, and before the initiation of phase 
     6.5, relating to first production.
       ``(iv) Each new nuclear facility within the nuclear 
     security enterprise that is estimated to cost more than 
     $500,000,000 before such facility achieves critical decision 
     1 and before such facility achieves critical decision 2 in 
     the acquisition process.
       ``(v) Each nuclear weapons system undergoing a major 
     alteration project (as defined in section 2753(a)(2) of this 
     title).
       ``(B) An independent cost review of each nuclear weapon 
     system undergoing life extension at the completion of phase 
     6.2, relating to study of feasibility and down-select.
       ``(2) Each independent cost estimate and independent cost 
     review under paragraph (1) shall include--
       ``(A) whether the cost baseline or the budget estimate for 
     the period covered by the future-years nuclear security 
     program has changed, and the rationale for any such change; 
     and
       ``(B) any views of the Secretary or the Administrator 
     regarding such estimate or review.
       ``(3) The Administrator shall review and consider the 
     results of any independent cost estimate or independent cost 
     review of a nuclear weapon system or a nuclear facility, as 
     the case may be, under this subsection before entering the 
     next phase of the development process of such system or the 
     acquisition process of such facility.
       ``(4) Each independent cost estimate or independent cost 
     review of a nuclear weapon system or a nuclear facility, as 
     the case may be, under this subsection shall be submitted not 
     later than 30 days after the date on which--
       ``(A) such system completes a phase specified in paragraph 
     (1); or
       ``(B) such facility achieves critical decision 1 as 
     specified in subparagraph (A)(iv) of such paragraph.
       ``(5) Each independent cost estimate or independent cost 
     review submitted under this subsection shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if 
     necessary.''.

[[Page H5647]]

  


     SEC. 3114. BUDGET REQUESTS AND CERTIFICATION REGARDING 
                   NUCLEAR WEAPONS DISMANTLEMENT.

       Section 3125 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
     subsections:
       ``(d) Budget Requests.--The Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall ensure that the budget of the President 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2019 through 
     2021 includes amounts for the nuclear weapons dismantlement 
     and disposition activities of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration in accordance with the limitation in 
     subsection (a).
       ``(e) Certification.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator shall certify to the congressional defense 
     committees that the Administrator is carrying out the nuclear 
     weapons dismantlement and disposition activities of the 
     Administration in accordance with the limitations in 
     subsections (a) and (b).''.

     SEC. 3115. IMPROVED INFORMATION RELATING TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) Improved Information.--Title XLIII of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2563 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
     the end the following new section:

     ``SEC. 4310. INFORMATION RELATING TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
                   PROGRAM AND ARMS CONTROL PROGRAM.

       ``(a) Technologies and Capabilities.--The Administrator 
     shall document, for efforts that are not focused on basic 
     research, the technologies and capabilities of the defense 
     nuclear nonproliferation research and development program--
       ``(1) that are transitioned to end users for further 
     development or deployment; and
       ``(2) that are deployed.
       ``(b) Assessments of Status.--(1) In assessing projects 
     under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and 
     development program or the defense nuclear nonproliferation 
     and arms control program, the Administrator shall compare the 
     status of each such project, including with respect to the 
     final results of such project, to the baseline targets and 
     goals established in the initial project plan of such 
     project.
       ``(2) The Administrator may carry out paragraph (1) using a 
     common template or such other means as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate.''.
       (b) Inclusion in Plan.--Section 4309(b) of such Act (50 
     U.S.C. 2575(b)) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (18); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new 
     paragraphs:
       ``(16) A summary of the technologies and capabilities 
     documented under section 4310(a).
       ``(17) A summary of the assessments conducted under section 
     4310(b)(1).''.

     SEC. 3116. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED NAVAL REACTOR 
                   FUEL BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.

       (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 
     2018.--
       (1) Research and development.--Except as provided by 
     paragraph (2), none of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Energy or the 
     Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to plan or 
     carry out research and development of an advanced naval 
     nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.
       (2) Exception.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for defense nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in the 
     funding table in division D--
       (A) $5,000,000 shall be made available to the Deputy 
     Administrator for Naval Reactors of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration for low-enriched uranium activities 
     (including downblending of high-enriched uranium fuel into 
     low-enriched uranium fuel, research and development using 
     low-enriched uranium fuel, or the modification or procurement 
     of equipment and infrastructure related to such activities) 
     to develop an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on 
     low-enriched uranium; and
       (B) if the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the 
     Navy determine under section 3118(c)(1) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
     114-92; 129 Stat. 1196) that such low-enriched uranium 
     activities and research and development should continue, an 
     additional $30,000,000 may be made available to the Deputy 
     Administrator for such purpose.
       (b) Prohibition on Availability of Funds Regarding Certain 
     Accounts and Purposes.--
       (1) Research and development and procurement.--Chapter 633 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
     end the following new section:

     ``Sec. 7319. Requirements for availability of funds relating 
       to advanced naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-
       enriched uranium

       ``(a) Authorization.--Low-enriched uranium activities may 
     only be carried out using funds authorized to be appropriated 
     or otherwise made available for the Department of Energy for 
     atomic energy defense activities for defense nuclear 
     nonproliferation.
       ``(b) Prohibition Regarding Certain Accounts.--(1) None of 
     the funds described in paragraph (2) may be obligated or 
     expended to carry out low-enriched uranium activities.
       ``(2) The funds described in this paragraph are funds 
     authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
     any fiscal year for any of the following accounts:
       ``(A) Shipbuilding and conversion, Navy, or any other 
     account of the Department of Defense.
       ``(B) Any account within the atomic energy defense 
     activities of the Department of Energy other than defense 
     nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in subsection (a).
       ``(3) The prohibition in paragraph (1) may not be 
     superseded except by a provision of law that specifically 
     supersedes, repeals, or modifies this section. A provision of 
     law, including a table incorporated into an Act, that 
     appropriates funds described in paragraph (2) for low-
     enriched uranium activities may not be treated as 
     specifically superseding this section unless such provision 
     specifically cites to this section.
       ``(c) Low-enriched Uranium Activities Defined.--In this 
     section, the term `low-enriched uranium activities' means the 
     following:
       ``(1) Planning or carrying out research and development of 
     an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched 
     uranium.
       ``(2) Procuring ships that use low-enriched uranium in 
     naval nuclear propulsion reactors.''.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new item:

``7319. Requirements for availability of funds relating to advanced 
              naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-enriched 
              uranium''.
       (c) Reports.--
       (1) SSN(x) submarine.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy 
     and the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors shall jointly 
     submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report on the cost and 
     timeline required to assess the feasibility, costs, and 
     requirements for a design of the Virginia-class replacement 
     nuclear attack submarine that would allow for the use of a 
     low-enriched uranium fueled reactor, if technically feasible, 
     without changing the diameter of the submarine.
       (2) Research and development.--Not later than 60 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy 
     Administrator for Naval Reactors shall submit to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate a report on--
       (A) the planned research and development activities on low-
     enriched uranium and highly enriched uranium fuel that could 
     apply to the development of a low-enriched uranium fuel or an 
     advanced highly enriched uranium fuel; and
       (B) with respect to such activities for each such fuel--
       (i) the costs associated with such activities; and
       (ii) a detailed proposal for funding such activities.

     SEC. 3117. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROGRAMS 
                   IN RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for atomic energy defense activities may be 
     obligated or expended to enter into a contract with, or 
     otherwise provide assistance to, the Russian Federation.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Energy, without delegation, 
     may waive the prohibition in subsection (a) only if--
       (1) the Secretary determines, in writing, that a nuclear-
     related threat arising in the Russian Federation must be 
     addressed urgently and it is necessary to waive the 
     prohibition to address that threat;
       (2) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense 
     concur in the determination under paragraph (1);
       (3) the Secretary of Energy submits to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report containing--
       (A) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
     security interest of the United States;
       (B) justification for the waiver, including the 
     determination under paragraph (1); and
       (C) a description of the activities to be carried out 
     pursuant to the waiver, including the expected cost and 
     timeframe for such activities; and
       (4) a period of seven days elapses following the date on 
     which the Secretary submits the report under paragraph (3).
       (c) Exception.--The prohibition under subsection (a) and 
     the requirements under subsection (b) to waive that 
     prohibition shall not apply to an amount, not to exceed 
     $3,000,000, that the Secretary may make available for the 
     Department of Energy Russian Health Studies Program.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 3118. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION PAY AND 
                   PERFORMANCE SYSTEM.

       (a) Pay Banding and Performance-Based Pay Adjustment 
     Demonstration Project.--
       (1) Extension.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall carry out the demonstration project until the date that 
     is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
     The Administrator shall carry out such project in accordance 
     with the demonstration project plan, including with respect 
     to the authority of the Administrator to modify such system 
     pursuant to such plan and waiving certain authorities or 
     requirements under such plan.
       (2) Naval nuclear propulsion program.--The Deputy 
     Administrator for Naval Reactors

[[Page H5648]]

     may carry out the demonstration project with respect to the 
     employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program in 
     positions in the competitive service.
       (3) Rotations.--In carrying out the demonstration project, 
     the Administrator shall authorize, and establish incentives 
     for, employees of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration to have rotational assignments among different 
     programs of the Administration, the headquarters and field 
     offices of the Administration, and the management and 
     operating contractors of the Administration.
       (4) Requirements for senior-level positions.--The 
     Administrator shall establish requirements for employees of 
     the Administration who are in the demonstration project to be 
     promoted to senior-level positions in the Administration, 
     including requirements with respect to--
       (A) professional training and continuing education; and
       (B) a certain number and types of rotational assignments 
     under paragraph (3), as determined by the Administrator.
       (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       (A) The term ``demonstration project'' means the National 
     Nuclear Security Administration Pay Banding and Performance-
     Based Pay Adjustment Demonstration Project that is carried 
     out--
       (i) pursuant to section 4703 of title 5, United States 
     Code; and
       (ii) in accordance with the demonstration project plan and 
     this subsection.
       (B) The term ``demonstration project plan'' means the 
     demonstration project plan published in the Federal Register 
     on December 21, 2007 (72 Fed. Reg. 72,776).
       (b) Rotations for Certain Contractors.--
       (1) Increased use.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall increase the use of rotational assignments of employees 
     of the management and operating contractors of the National 
     Nuclear Security Administration to the headquarters of the 
     Administration, the Department of Defense and the military 
     departments, the intelligence community, and other 
     departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
       (2) Methods.--The Administrator shall carry out paragraph 
     (1) by--
       (A) establishing incentives for--
       (i) the management and operating contractors of the 
     Administration and the employees of such contractors to 
     participate in rotational assignments; and
       (ii) the departments and agencies of the Federal Government 
     specified in such paragraph to facilitate such assignments;
       (B) providing professional and leadership development 
     opportunities during such assignments;
       (C) using details and other applicable authorities and 
     programs, including the mobility program under subchapter VI 
     of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
     referred to as the ``Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility 
     Program''); and
       (D) taking such other actions as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate to increase the use of such rotational 
     assignments.
       (c) Red-team Analysis.--
       (1) Analysis.--The Director for Cost Estimating and Program 
     Evaluation of the National Nuclear Security Administration 
     shall carry out a red-team analysis of the Federal employee 
     staffing structure of the Administration with respect to the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security meeting the authorized 
     personnel levels under section 3241A of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 22441a).
       (2) Matters included.--The analysis under paragraph (1) 
     shall include assessments of--
       (A) the number of Federal employees within each program of 
     the Administration, and whether such numbers are 
     appropriately balanced with respect to the size, scope, 
     functions, budgets, and risks, of the program; and
       (B) the number of Senior Executive Service positions within 
     the Administration, including a comparison of such number to 
     other comparable departments and agencies of the Federal 
     Government, and whether such number is appropriate.
       (d) Briefings.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act--
       (A) the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall provide a 
     briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on the 
     implementation of--
       (i) section 3248 of the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration Act, as added by subsection (a); and
       (ii) subsection (b); and
       (B) the Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation 
     shall provide to such committees a briefing on the analysis 
     under subsection (c).
       (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (C) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate; and
       (D) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
     House of Representatives.

     SEC. 3119. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-USABLE PLUTONIUM.

       (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary 
     of Energy shall carry out construction and project support 
     activities relating to the MOX facility using funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration for the MOX facility for construction 
     and project support activities.
       (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Energy may waive the 
     requirement in subsection (a) if the Secretary submits to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate the following:
       (1) The matters required by section 3116(b)(3) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2761).
       (2) Notification that the Secretary has sought to enter 
     into consultations with any relevant State necessary to 
     pursue an alternative option for carrying out the plutonium 
     disposition program.
       (3) Notification that the Secretary has been unable to 
     enter into a fixed-price contract with the prime contractor 
     of the MOX facility (for construction and project support 
     activities under subsection (a)) that the Secretary 
     determines sufficiently minimizes risk and cost to the 
     Department of Energy.
       (4) Certification that--
       (A) an alternative option for carrying out the plutonium 
     disposition program exists;
       (B) the total lifecycle cost of such alternative option 
     would be less than approximately half of the estimated 
     remaining total lifecycle cost of the mixed-oxide fuel 
     program; and
       (C) pursuing such alternative option is in the best 
     interest of the Federal Government.
       (5) The commitment of the Secretary to--
       (A) remove plutonium from South Carolina; and
       (B) ensure a sustainable future for the Savannah River 
     Site.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``MOX facility'' means the mixed-oxide fuel 
     fabrication facility at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, South 
     Carolina.
       (2) The term ``project support activities'' means 
     activities that support the design, long-lead equipment 
     procurement, and site preparation of the MOX facility.

     SEC. 3120. MODIFICATION OF MINOR CONSTRUCTION THRESHOLD FOR 
                   PLANT PROJECTS.

       Section 4701 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2741) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``In this subtitle:'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(a) In General.--In this subtitle:'';
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
     inserting ``$20,000,000, subject to adjustment under 
     subsection (b)''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Adjustment of Minor Construction Threshold for 
     Inflation.--(1) The Secretary of Energy shall adjust the 
     amount of the minor construction threshold on October 1, 
     2017, and at the beginning of each fiscal year thereafter, to 
     reflect the percentage (if any) of the increase in the 
     average of the Consumer Price Index for the preceding 12-
     month period compared to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal 
     year 2016.
       ``(2) In adjusting the amount of the minor construction 
     threshold under paragraph (1), the Secretary--
       ``(A) shall round the amount of any increase in the 
     Consumer Price Index to the nearest dollar; and
       ``(B) may ignore any such increase of less than 1 percent.
       ``(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `Consumer 
     Price Index' means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban 
     Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
     Department of Labor.''.

     SEC. 3121. DESIGN COMPETITION.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) In January 2016, the co-chairs of a congressionally-
     mandated study panel from the National Academies of Science 
     testified before the House Committee on Armed Services that:
       (A) ``The National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) 
     complex must engage in robust design competitions in order to 
     exercise the design and production skills that underpin 
     stockpile stewardship and are necessary to meet evolving 
     threats.''
       (B) ``To exercise the full set of design skills necessary 
     for an effective nuclear deterrent, the NNSA should develop 
     and conduct the first in what the committee envisions to be a 
     series of design competitions that integrate the full end-to-
     end process from novel design conception through engineering, 
     building, and non-nuclear testing of a prototype.''
       (2) In March 2016 testimony before the House Committee on 
     Armed Services regarding a December 2016 Defense Science 
     Board (DSB) report titled, ``Seven Defense Priorities for the 
     New Administration'', members of the DSB said:
       (A) ``A key contributor to nuclear deterrence is the 
     continuous, adaptable exercise of the development, design, 
     and production functions for nuclear weapons in both the DOD 
     and DOE... Yet the DOE laboratories and DOD contractor 
     community have done little integrated design and development 
     work outside of life extension for 25 years, let alone 
     concept development that could serve as a hedge to 
     surprise.''
       (B) ``The Defense Science Board believes that the triad's 
     complementary features remain robust tenets for the design of 
     a future force. Replacing our current, aging force is 
     essential, but not sufficient in the more complex nuclear 
     environment we now face to provide the adaptability or 
     flexibility to confidently hold at risk what adversaries 
     value. In particular, if the threat evolves in ways that 
     favorably change the cost/benefit calculus in the view of an 
     adversary's leadership, then we should be in a position to 
     quickly restore a credible deterrence posture.''
       (3) In a memorandum dated May 9, 2014, then-Secretary of 
     Energy Ernie Moniz said:
       (A) ``If nuclear military capabilities are to provide 
     deterrence for the nation they need to be relevant to the 
     emerging global strategic environment. The current stockpile 
     was designed to meet the needs of a bipolar world with roots 
     in the Cold War era. A more complex, chaotic, and dynamic 
     security environment is emerging. In order to uphold the 
     Department's mission to ensure an effective nuclear 
     deterrent... we must

[[Page H5649]]

     ensure our nuclear capabilities meet the challenges of known 
     and potential geopolitical and technological trends. 
     Therefore we must look ahead, using the expertise of our 
     laboratories, to how the capabilities that may be employed by 
     other nations could impact deterrence over the next several 
     decades.''
       (B) ``We must challenge our thinking about our programs of 
     record in order to permit foresighted actions that may 
     reduce, in the coming decades, the chances for surprise and 
     that buttress deterrence.''
       (b) Design Competition.--
       (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security, in coordination with the 
     Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council, shall carry out a 
     new and comprehensive design competition for a nuclear 
     warhead that could be employed on ballistic missiles of the 
     United States by 2030. Such competition shall--
       (A) examine options for warhead design and related delivery 
     system requirements in the 2030s, including--
       (i) life extension of existing weapons;
       (ii) new capabilities; and
       (iii) such other concepts that the Administrator and 
     Chairman determine necessary to fully exercise and create 
     responsive design capabilities in the enterprise and ensure a 
     robust nuclear deterrent into the 2030s;
       (B) assess how the capabilities and defenses that may be 
     employed by other nations could impact deterrence in 2030 and 
     beyond and how such threats could be addressed or mitigated 
     in the warhead and related delivery systems;
       (C) exercise the full set of design skills necessary for an 
     effective nuclear deterrent and responsive enterprise through 
     production of conceptual designs and, as the Administrator 
     determines appropriate, production of non-nuclear prototypes 
     of components or subsystems; and
       (D) examine and recommend actions for significantly 
     shortening timelines and significantly reducing costs 
     associated with design, development, certification, and 
     production of the warhead, without reducing worker or public 
     health and safety.
       (2) Timing.--The Administrator shall--
       (A) during fiscal year 2018 develop a plan to carry out 
     paragraph (1); and
       (B) during fiscal year 2019 implement such plan.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the 
     Administrator, in coordination with the Chairman of the 
     Nuclear Weapons Council, shall provide a briefing to the 
     Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
     Representatives on the plan of the Administrator to carry out 
     the warhead design competition under subsection (b). Such 
     briefing shall include an assessment of the costs, benefits, 
     risks, and opportunities of such plan, particularly impacts 
     to ongoing life extension programs and infrastructure 
     projects.

     SEC. 3122. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY COUNTERINTELLIGENCE POLYGRAPH 
                   PROGRAM.

       Section 4504(b) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2654(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) The regulations prescribed under paragraph (1) shall 
     ensure that the persons subject to the counterintelligence 
     polygraph program required by subsection (a) include any 
     person who is--
       ``(A) a United States national who also has the nationality 
     of a foreign state; and
       ``(B) seeking employment with the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration.''.

     SEC. 3123. SECURITY CLEARANCE FOR DUAL-NATIONALS EMPLOYED BY 
                   NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY AGENCY.

       (a) In General.--The National Nuclear Security 
     Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.) is amended by 
     inserting after section 3236 the following new section:

     ``SEC. 3237. SECURITY CLEARANCE FOR DUAL NATIONALS OF HIGH 
                   THREAT FOREIGN STATES.

       ``(a) In General.--In the case of an individual who is a 
     United States national who also has the nationality of a 
     foreign state that is on the list maintained by the Secretary 
     of Energy under subsection (a) and who is appointed to or 
     hired for a position designated by the Office of Personnel 
     Management as critical sensitive or special sensitive, the 
     Secretary shall provide additional review before approving a 
     security clearance for such individual.
       ``(b) Waiver.--
       ``(1) Waiver authority.--In the case of a person who is a 
     United States national who also has the nationality of a 
     foreign state identified under paragraph (2), the Secretary 
     may waive the requirement under subsection (a).
       ``(2) Foreign states.--The Director of National 
     Intelligence shall identify foreign states that permit 
     citizens or nationals of the United States to serve in 
     positions of trust equivalent to positions identified by the 
     Office of Personnel Management as critical sensitive or 
     special sensitive.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents at the 
     beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 3236 the following new item:

``Sec. 3237. Security clearance for dual nationals of high threat 
              foreign states.''.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

     SEC. 3131. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) Status of Nuclear Materials Protection, Control, and 
     Accounting Program.--
       (1) Repeal.--Section 4303 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 2563) is repealed.
       (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 4303.
       (b) Status of Security of Atomic Energy Defense 
     Facilities.--Section 4506 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 2657) is amended by striking ``of each year'' each 
     place it appears and inserting ``of each even-numbered 
     year''.
       (c) Security Risks Posed to Nuclear Weapons Complex.--
       (1) Included in ssmp.--Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (c)--
       (i) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
       (ii) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
     paragraph (7):
       ``(7) A summary of the status of the plan regarding the 
     research and development, deployment, and lifecycle 
     sustainment of technologies described in subsection 
     (d)(7).''; and
       (B) in subsection (d)--
       (i) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
       (ii) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
     paragraph (7):
       ``(7) A plan for the research and development, deployment, 
     and lifecycle sustainment of the technologies employed within 
     the nuclear security enterprise to address physical and 
     cybersecurity threats during the five-fiscal-year period 
     following the date of the plan, together with--
       ``(A) for each site in the nuclear security enterprise, a 
     description of the technologies deployed to address the 
     physical and cybersecurity threats posed to that site;
       ``(B) for each site and for the nuclear security 
     enterprise, the methods used by the Administration to 
     establish priorities among investments in physical and 
     cybersecurity technologies; and
       ``(C) a detailed description of how the funds identified 
     for each program element specified pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     in the budget for the Administration for each fiscal year 
     during that five-fiscal-year period will help carry out that 
     plan.''.
       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 3253(b) of the National 
     Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2453) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (5).
       (d) Selected Acquisition Reports.--Section 4217(a) of the 
     Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2537(a)) is amended by 
     striking ``fiscal-year quarter'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``fiscal year''.
       (e) Long-term Plan for Meeting National Security 
     Requirements for Unencumbered Uranium.--Section 4221(a) of 
     the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538c(a)) is amended 
     by striking ``Concurrent with the submission to Congress of 
     the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 
     31, United States Code, in'' and inserting ``Not later than 
     December 31 of''.
       (f) Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Management Plan.--
     Section 4309 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2575) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``In General.--
     Concurrent with the submission to Congress of the budget of 
     the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
     States Code, in each fiscal year'' and inserting ``Plan.--Not 
     later than March 31 of each odd-numbered year'';
       (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
       (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
     subsection (c):
       ``(c) Updated Summary.--Not later than March 31 of each 
     even-numbered year, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees an updated summary of the 
     plan submitted under subsection (a) during the previous 
     year.''; and
       (4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by inserting 
     ``and the updated summary required by subsection (c)'' before 
     ``shall be submitted''.

     SEC. 3132. ASSESSMENT OF MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS 
                   OF NATIONAL SECURITY LABORATORIES.

       (a) Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
     Security shall seek to enter into a contract with a federally 
     funded research and development center to conduct an 
     assessment of the benefits, costs, challenges, risks, 
     efficiency, and effectiveness of the strategy of the 
     Administrator with respect to management and operating 
     contracts for national security laboratories. The 
     Administrator may not award such contract to a federally 
     funded research and development center for which the 
     Department of Energy or the National Nuclear Security 
     Administration is the primary sponsor.
       (b) Cooperation.--The Administrator, and the director of 
     each national security laboratory, shall provide to the 
     federally funded research and development center conducting 
     the assessment under subsection (a) the information the 
     center requires to conduct such assessment.
       (c) Submission.--
       (1) NNSA.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
     the Administrator and a federally funded research and 
     development center enter into the contract under subsection 
     (a), the center shall submit to the Administrator a report on 
     the assessment conducted under such subsection. Such report 
     shall include the following:
       (A) An assessment of the acquisition strategy and the 
     contract oversight process of the Administrator, and of the 
     use of for-profit management and operating contractors at 
     national security laboratories, and whether such strategy, 
     process, and contractors provide the best outcomes to the 
     Federal Government with respect to performance, cost, 
     efficiency, and effectiveness.
       (B) An assessment of the total costs, for each national 
     security laboratory, that are incurred because of using a 
     for-profit model for the management and operating contract 
     that would not be incurred under a nonprofit model, and 
     whether performance, costs, efficiency, and effectiveness 
     would be expected to increase or decrease under a nonprofit 
     model.

[[Page H5650]]

       (C) An assessment of whether the Administrator is 
     appropriately using, managing, and overseeing the national 
     security laboratories with respect to the nature of the 
     laboratories as federally funded research and development 
     centers.
       (2) Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
     which the Administrator receives the report under paragraph 
     (1), the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     such report, without change, together with any comments the 
     Administrator determines appropriate.
       (3) Limitation.--
       (A) Award or extension of contract.--None of the funds 
     authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
     available for fiscal year 2018 for the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration may be obligated or expended to 
     award, or to extend, a management and operating contract for 
     a national security laboratory until the date on which the 
     Administrator submits to the congressional defense committees 
     the report under paragraph (2).
       (B) Waiver for extension.--The Secretary of Energy may 
     waive the limitation in subparagraph (A) with respect to the 
     extension of a management and operating contract for a 
     national security laboratory if the Secretary--
       (i) determines such waiver is required in the interest of 
     national security; and
       (ii) notifies the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate of such determination.
       (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     nothing in this section should be construed to mandate or 
     encourage an extension of an existing management and 
     operating contract for a national security laboratory.
       (e) National Security Laboratory Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``national security laboratory'' has the meaning 
     given that term in section 4002(7) of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(7)).

     SEC. 3133. EVALUATION OF CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN DEFENSE 
                   NUCLEAR WASTE.

       (a) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Energy shall conduct an 
     evaluation of the feasibility, costs, and cost savings of 
     classifying certain defense nuclear waste as other than high-
     level radioactive waste, without decreasing environmental, 
     health, or public safety requirements.
       (b) Matters Included.--In conducting the evaluation under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider--
       (1) the estimated quantities and locations of certain 
     defense nuclear waste;
       (2) the potential disposal path for such waste;
       (3) the estimated disposal timeline for such waste;
       (4) the estimated costs for disposal of such waste, and 
     potential cost savings;
       (5) the potential effect on existing consent orders, 
     permits, and agreements;
       (6) the basis by which the Secretary would make a decision 
     on whether to reclassify such waste; and
       (7) any such other matters relating to defense nuclear 
     waste that the Secretary determines appropriate.
       (c) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the Secretary 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     report on the evaluation under subsection (a), including a 
     description of--
       (1) the consideration by the Secretary of the matters under 
     subsection (b);
       (2) any actions the Secretary has taken or plans to take to 
     change the processes, rules, regulations, orders, or 
     directives, relating to defense nuclear waste, as 
     appropriate;
       (3) any recommendations for legislative action the 
     Secretary determines appropriate; and
       (4) the assessment of the Secretary regarding the benefits 
     and risks of the actions and recommendations of the Secretary 
     under paragraphs (1) and (2).
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
     the following:
       (A) The congressional defense committees.
       (B) The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (C) The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate.
       (2) The term ``certain defense nuclear waste'' means 
     radioactive waste that--
       (A) resulted from the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel 
     that was generated from atomic energy defense activities; and
       (B) contains more than 100 nCi/g of alpha-emitting 
     transuranic isotopes with half-lives greater than 20 years.

     SEC. 3134. REPORT ON CRITICAL DECISION-1 ON MATERIAL STAGING 
                   FACILITY PROJECT.

       Not later than October 31, 2017, the Administrator for 
     Nuclear Security shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report containing the following:
       (1) The decision memorandum of the Administrator with 
     respect to Critical Decision-1 on the Material Staging 
     Facility project at the Pantex Plant.
       (2) The preferred alternative approved by the Administrator 
     for such Critical Decision-1.
       (3) The cost-range estimates, including a description of 
     the costs saved or avoided from not carrying out 
     recapitalization and sustainment of Area 4 at the Pantex 
     Plant.
       (4) The schedule-range estimates that include completion of 
     the Material Staging Facility by 2024.
       (5) The risk factors and risk mitigation and management 
     options relating to the Material Staging Facility.
       (6) The expected improvements to operations and security 
     provided by the Material Staging Facility, once operational, 
     including the potential annual cost savings.
       (7) Such other matters as the Administrator considers 
     appropriate.

     SEC. 3135. MODIFICATION TO STOCKPILE STEWARDSHIP, MANAGEMENT, 
                   AND RESPONSIVENESS PLAN.

       Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
     2523), as amended by section 3131, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following new 
     paragraph (8):
       ``(8) A summary of the assessment under subsection (d)(8) 
     regarding the execution of the programs with current and 
     projected budgets and any associated risks.''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following new 
     paragraph (8):
       ``(8) An assessment of whether the programs described by 
     the report can be executed with current and projected budgets 
     and any associated risks.''.

     SEC. 3136. IMPROVED REPORTING FOR ANTI-SMUGGLING RADIATION 
                   DETECTION SYSTEMS.

       (a) Annual Report.--Together with the submission to 
     Congress of the budget of the President under section 1105(a) 
     of title 31, United States Code, for each of fiscal years 
     2019 through 2021, the Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     regarding any anti-smuggling radiation detection systems that 
     the Administrator proposes to deploy during the fiscal year 
     covered by the budget.
       (b) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) The probability of detection for the anti-smuggling 
     radiation detection systems covered by the report against 
     realistic potential smuggling threats, including shielded and 
     unshielded uranium, plutonium, and other special nuclear 
     material.
       (2) The costs associated with the deployments of such 
     systems, including costs to the United States and costs to 
     any host nation.
       (3) Options for technological advances that would make 
     radiation detection less expensive or more effective.
       (4) The benefits to the national security of the United 
     States resulting from the deployments of such systems.

     SEC. 3137. ANNUAL SELECTED ACQUISITION REPORTS ON CERTAIN 
                   HARDWARE RELATING TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
                   NONPROLIFERATION.

       (a) Annual Selected Acquisition Reports.--
       (1) In general.--At the end of each fiscal year, the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on each covered 
     hardware project. The reports shall be known as Selected 
     Acquisition Reports for the covered hardware program 
     concerned.
       (2) Matters included.--The information contained in the 
     Selected Acquisition Report for a fiscal year for a covered 
     hardware project shall be the information contained in the 
     Selected Acquisition Report for such fiscal year for a major 
     defense acquisition program under section 2432 of title 10, 
     United States Code, expressed in terms of the covered 
     hardware project.
       (b) Covered Hardware Project Defined.--In this section, the 
     term ``covered hardware project'' means projects carried out 
     under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and 
     development program that--
       (1) are focused on the production and deployment of 
     hardware, including with respect to the development and 
     deployment of satellites or satellite payloads; and
       (2) exceed $500,000,000 in total program cost over the 
     course of five years.

     SEC. 3138. ASSESSMENT OF DESIGN TRADE OPTIONS OF W80-4 
                   WARHEAD.

       (a) Assessment.--The Director for Cost Estimating and 
     Program Evaluation shall conduct an assessment of the design 
     trade options, and the associated cost and benefit analyses 
     for each such option, for the W80-4 warhead relating to the 
     down-select options to be contained in the final Phase 6.2 
     study report. Such assessment shall include a review of the 
     cost and schedule estimates of each such option.
       (b) Assessment and Briefing.--
       (1) NNSA.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
     Administrator for Nuclear Security the assessment under 
     subsection (a).
       (2) Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing containing a copy 
     of the hassessment under subsection (a), without change, and 
     any views of the Administrator.
       (3) Form.--The assessment submitted under paragraph (2) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

     SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

       There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
     2018, $30,600,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear 
     Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy 
     Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.).

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

     SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
     to the Secretary of Energy $4,900,000 for fiscal year 2018 
     for the purpose of carrying out activities under chapter 641 
     of title 10, United States Code, relating to the naval 
     petroleum reserves.
       (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to 
     the authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall 
     remain available until expended.

[[Page H5651]]

  


                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

     SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

       There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department 
     of Transportation for fiscal year 2018, to be available 
     without fiscal year limitation if so provided in 
     appropriations Acts, for programs associated with maintaining 
     the United States merchant marine, the following amounts:
       (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United 
     States Merchant Marine Academy, $84,400,000, of which--
       (A) $66,400,000 shall be for Academy operations; and
       (B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     capital asset management at the Academy.
       (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
     academies, $27,400,000, of which--
       (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2019, for the Student Incentive Program;
       (B) $3,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     direct payments to such academies; and
       (C) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
     vessels.
       (3) For expenses necessary to support the National Security 
     Multi-Mission Vessel Program, $36,000,000, which shall remain 
     available until expended.
       (4) For expenses necessary to support Maritime 
     Administration operations and programs, $60,020,000.
       (5) For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a 
     United States flag merchant marine to serve the national 
     security needs of the United States under chapter 531 of 
     title 46, United States Code, $300,000,000.
       (6) For expenses necessary to provide assistance for small 
     shipyards and maritime communities under section 54101 of 
     title 46, United States Code, $30,000,000, which shall remain 
     available until expended for capital and related 
     improvements.
       (7) For the cost (as defined in section 502(5) of the 
     Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5))) of loan 
     guarantees under the program authorized by chapter 537 of 
     title 46, United States Code, $40,000,000.

     SEC. 3502. MERCHANT SHIP SALES ACT OF 1946.

       (a) Amendments.--The Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
     U.S.C. 4401 et seq.) is amended by--
       (1) repealing the first section and sections 2, 3, 5, 12, 
     and 14;
       (2) in section 8, redesignating subsection (d) as section 
     56308 of title 46, United States Code, transferring it to 
     appear after section 56307 of such title; and
       (3) redesignating section 11 as section 57100 of title 46, 
     United States Code, and transferring it to appear before 
     section 57101 of such title.
       (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
       (1) Section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
     Act of 1946 (50 U.S.C. App. 1744)'' each place it appears and 
     inserting ``section 57100 of title 46''.
       (2) Section 3134 of title 40, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) by striking ``31,'' and inserting ``31 or''; and
       (B) by striking ``or the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 
     (50 App. U.S.C. 1735 et seq.),''.
       (3) Section 3703a(b)(6) of title 46, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
     Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1744)'' and inserting ``section 
     57100''.
       (4) Section 52101(c)(1)(A)(i) of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking ``section 11 of the Merchant 
     Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1744)'' and inserting 
     ``section 57100''.
       (5) Section 56308 of title 46, United States Code, as 
     redesignated and transferred by subsection (a)(2) of this 
     section, is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as precedes ``vessel constructed'' 
     and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56308. Transfer of substitute vessels

       ``In the case of any'';
       (B) by inserting ``of Transportation'' after ``Secretary''; 
     and
       (C) by striking ``adjustments with respect to the retained 
     vessels as provided for in section 9, and''.
       (6) Section 57100 of title 46, United States Code, as 
     redesignated and transferred by subsection (a)(3) of this 
     section, is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as precedes the text of subsection 
     (a) and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 57100. National Defense Reserve Fleet

       ``(a) Fleet Components.--'';
       (B) in subsection (b), by inserting before the first 
     sentence the following: ``Permitted Uses.--''; and
       (C) in subsection (e)--
       (i) by inserting before the first sentence the following: 
     ``Exemption From Tank Vessel Construction Standards.--''; and
       (ii) by striking ``of title 46, United States Code''.
       (7) Section 57101 of title 46, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``maintained under section 11 of the 
     Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. 1744)''.
       (8) The analysis for chapter 563 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
     section 56307 the following:

``56308. Transfer of substitute vessels.''.
       (9) The analysis for chapter 571 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting before the item relating to 
     section 57101 the following:

``57100. National Defense Reserve Fleet.''.

     SEC. 3503. MARITIME SECURITY FLEET PROGRAM; RESTRICTION ON 
                   OPERATION FOR NEW ENTRANTS.

       (a) Restriction.--Section 53105(a) of title 46, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``, except as 
     provided in paragraph (2),'' after ``in the foreign commerce 
     or'';
       (2) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``and'' after the 
     semicolon at the end;
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) in the case of a vessel, other than a replacement 
     vessel under subsection (f), first covered by an operating 
     agreement after the date of the enactment of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, the vessel 
     shall not be operated in the transportation of cargo between 
     points in the United States and its territories either 
     directly or via a foreign port; and''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 53106 of title 46, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 53105(a)(1)'' 
     and inserting ``paragraph (1) and (2) of section 53105(a), as 
     otherwise applicable with respect to such vessel,''; and
       (2) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``section 
     53105(a)(1)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1) and (2) of 
     section 53105(a), as otherwise applicable with respect to 
     such vessel''.

     SEC. 3504. CODIFICATION OF SECTIONS RELATING TO ACQUISITION, 
                   CHARTER, AND REQUISITION OF VESSELS.

       (a) Emergency Foreign Vessel Acquisition; Purchase or 
     Requisition of Vessels Lying Idle in United States Waters.--
     The first section of the Act of August 9, 1954 (ch. 659; 50 
     U.S.C. 196)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56309 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear at the end of chapter 
     563 of such title, as otherwise amended by this title; and
       (2) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``That during'' and inserting the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 56309. Emergency foreign vessel acquisition; purchase 
       or requisition of vessels lying idle in United States 
       waters

       ``During'';
       (B) by striking ``section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936, as amended'' each place it appears and inserting ``this 
     chapter''; and
       (C) by striking ``the second paragraph of subsection (d) of 
     such section 902, as amended'' and inserting ``section 
     56305''.
       (b) Voluntary Purchase or Charter Agreements.--Section 2 of 
     such Act (50 U.S.C. 197)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56310 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear after section 56309 of 
     such title (as amended by subsection (a)); and
       (2) is amended--
       (A) by striking so much as proceeds ``During'' and 
     inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56310. Voluntary purchase or charter agreements''; and

       (B) by striking ``section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936,'' and inserting ``this chapter''.
       (c) Requisitioned Vessels.--Section 3 of such Act (50 
     U.S.C. 198)--
       (1) is redesignated as section 56311 of title 46, United 
     States Code, and transferred to appear after section 56310 of 
     such title (as amended by subsections (a) and (b));
       (2) is amended by striking so much as precedes subsection 
     (a) and inserting the following:

     ``Sec. 56311. Requisitioned vessels''; and

       (3) is amended--
       (A) except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), by 
     striking ``this Act'' each place it appears and inserting 
     ``section 56309 or 56310, as applicable'';
       (B) in subsection (c)--
       (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``this Act'' and 
     inserting ``section 56309 or 56310, as applicable,''; and
       (ii) by striking ``The second paragraph of section 9 of the 
     Shipping Act, 1916, as amended,'' and inserting ``Section 
     57109''; and
       (C) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in the first sentence by striking ``provisions of 
     section 3709 of the Revised Statutes'' and inserting 
     ``section 6101 of title 41'';
       (ii) in the second sentence--

       (I) by striking ``this Act'' and inserting ``section 56309 
     or 56310, as applicable,''; and
       (II) by striking ``said section 3709'' and inserting 
     ``section 6101 of title 41'';

       (iii) by striking ``title VII of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936'' and inserting ``chapter 575''; and
       (iv) by striking subsection (f).
       (d) Documented Defined.--Chapter 563 of title 46, United 
     States Code, as amended by this section, is further amended 
     by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 56312. Documented defined

       ``In sections 56309 through 56311, the term `documented' 
     means, with respect to a vessel, that a certificate of 
     documentation has been issued for the vessel under chapter 
     121.''.
       (e) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 563 of 
     title 46, United States Code, as otherwise amended by this 
     title, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``56309. Emergency foreign vessel acquisition; purchase or requisition 
              of vessels lying idle in United States waters
``56310. Voluntary purchase or charter agreements
``56311. Requisitioned vessels
``56312. Documented defined''.
       (f) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to a 
     section that is redesignated

[[Page H5652]]

     and transferred by this section is deemed to refer to such 
     section as so redesignated and transferred.

     SEC. 3505. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL SHIPYARDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 54101 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the section heading, by striking ``and maritime 
     communities'';
       (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``in communities'' 
     and all that follows through the period and inserting 
     ``relating to shipbuilding, ship repair, and associated 
     industries.'';
       (3) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(1) consider projects that foster--
       ``(A) efficiency, competitive operations, and quality ship 
     construction, repair, and reconfiguration; and
       ``(B) employee skills and enhanced productivity related to 
     shipbuilding, ship repair, and associated industries; and'';
       (4) in subsection (c)(1)--
       (A) by inserting ``to'' after ``may be used''; and
       (B) by striking subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(A) make capital and related improvements in small 
     shipyards; and
       ``(B) provide training for workers in shipbuilding, ship 
     repair, and associated industries.'';
       (5) in subsection (d), by striking ``unless'' and all that 
     follows before the period;
       (6) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by striking paragraph (2);
       (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
       (C) in paragraph (1) by striking ``Except as provided in 
     paragraph (2),''; and
       (7) in subsection (i), by striking ``2015'' and all that 
     follows before the period and inserting ``2018 and 2019 to 
     carry out this section $30,000,000''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 541 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 54101 and inserting the following:

``54101. Assistance for small shipyards.''.

     SEC. 3506. REPORT ON SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM RECOVERY IN THE 
                   COAST GUARD.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
     shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate a report on sexual assault prevention and response 
     policies of the Coast Guard and strategic goals related to 
     sexual assault victim recovery.
       (b) Contents.--The report shall--
       (1) describe Coast Guard strategic goals relating to sexual 
     assault climate, prevention, response, and accountability, 
     and actions taken by the Coast Guard to promote sexual 
     assault victim recovery;
       (2) explain how victim recovery is being incorporated into 
     Coast Guard strategic and programmatic guidance related to 
     sexual assault prevention and response;
       (3) examine current Coast Guard sexual assault prevention 
     and response policy with respect to--
       (A) Coast Guard criteria for what comprises sexual assault 
     victim recovery;
       (B) alignment of Coast Guard personnel policies to 
     enhance--
       (i) an approach to sexual assault response that gives 
     priority to victim recovery;
       (ii) upholding individual privacy and dignity; and
       (iii) the opportunity for the continuation of Coast Guard 
     service by sexual assault victims; and
       (C) sexual harassment response, including a description of 
     the circumstances under which sexual harassment is considered 
     a criminal offense; and
       (4) to ensure victims and supervisors understand the full 
     scope of resources available to aid in long-term recovery, 
     explain how the Coast Guard informs its workforce about 
     changes to sexual assault prevention and response policies 
     related to victim recovery.

     SEC. 3507. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 541 of title 46, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 54102. Centers of excellence for domestic maritime 
       workforce training and education

       ``(a) Designation.--The Secretary of Transportation may 
     designate as a center of excellence for domestic maritime 
     workforce training and education a covered training entity 
     located in a State that borders on the--
       ``(1) Gulf of Mexico;
       ``(2) Atlantic Ocean;
       ``(3) Long Island Sound;
       ``(4) Pacific Ocean;
       ``(5) Great Lakes; or
       ``(6) Mississippi River System.
       ``(b) Assistance.--The Secretary may enter into a 
     cooperative agreement (as that term is used in section 6305 
     of title 31) with a center of excellence designated under 
     subsection (a) to support maritime workforce training and 
     education at the center of excellence, including efforts of 
     the center of excellence to--
       ``(1) admit additional students;
       ``(2) recruit and train faculty;
       ``(3) expand facilities;
       ``(4) create new maritime career pathways; or
       ``(5) award students credit for prior experience, including 
     military service.
       ``(c) Covered Training Entity Defined.--In this section, 
     the term `covered training entity' means an entity that is--
       ``(1) a community or technical college; or
       ``(2) a maritime training center--
       ``(A) operated by, or under the supervision of, a State; 
     and
       ``(B) with a maritime training program in operation on the 
     date of enactment of this section.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 541 of 
     title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     the item relating to section 54101 the following:

``54102. Centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training 
              and education.''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

     SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

       (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
     specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, 
     or activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified 
     dollar amount for the project, program, or activity is hereby 
     authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations.
       (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, 
     or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of 
     a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
       (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
     accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
     of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive 
     procedures; and
       (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
       (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An 
     amount specified in the funding tables in this division may 
     be transferred or reprogrammed under a transfer or 
     reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this 
     Act or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an 
     amount specified in such funding tables shall not count 
     against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
     section 1001 or section 1512 of this Act or any other 
     provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would 
     move funds between appropriation accounts.
       (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section 
     applies to any classified annex that accompanies this Act.
       (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
     communication concerning any amount specified in the funding 
     tables in this division shall supersede the requirements of 
     this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

     SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2018          House
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
002               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.          75,115          75,115
004               MQ-1 UAV.............          30,206          90,206
                      Unfunded                                  [60,000]
                      requirement.
                  ROTARY
005               HELICOPTER, LIGHT             108,383         108,383
                   UTILITY (LUH).
006               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            725,976         725,976
                   IIIA REMAN.
007                  ADVANCE                    170,910         170,910
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            374,100         648,500
                   IIIB NEW BUILD.
                      Unfunded                                 [274,400]
                      requirement.
009                  ADVANCE                     71,900          71,900
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M             938,308       1,224,710
                   MODEL (MYP).
                      Unfunded                                 [100,000]
                      requirement--addi
                      tional 5 for ARNG.
                      Unfunded                                 [186,402]
                      requirement--UH-6
                      0M ECPs.
011                  ADVANCE                     86,295          86,295
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               UH-60 BLACK HAWK A             76,516          93,216
                   AND L MODELS.
                      Unfunded                                  [16,700]
                      requirement--UH-6
                      0Vs.
013               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....         202,576         557,076

[[Page H5653]]

 
                      Emergent                                 [108,000]
                      requirements--add
                      itional 4 CH-47F
                      Block I.
                      Unfunded                                 [246,500]
                      requirement--addi
                      tional 4 MH-47Gs.
014                  ADVANCE                     17,820          17,820
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
015               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...           5,910          29,910
                      Realign European                           [8,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [16,000]
                      requirement.
016               UNIVERSAL GROUND               15,000          15,000
                   CONTROL EQUIPMENT
                   (UAS).
017               GRAY EAGLE MODS2.....          74,291          74,291
018               MULTI SENSOR ABN               68,812         127,762
                   RECON (MIP).
                      Realign European                          [29,475]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [29,475]
                      requirement.
019               AH-64 MODS...........         238,141         382,941
                      Unfunded                                 [144,800]
                      requirement.
020               CH-47 CARGO                    20,166          81,166
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
                      Unfunded                                  [61,000]
                      requirement.
021               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).           5,514           5,514
022               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..          11,650          11,650
023               EMARSS SEMA MODS               15,279          15,279
                   (MIP).
024               UTILITY/CARGO                  57,737          57,737
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
025               UTILITY HELICOPTER              5,900           5,900
                   MODS.
026               NETWORK AND MISSION           142,102         142,102
                   PLAN.
027               COMMS, NAV                    166,050         207,630
                   SURVEILLANCE.
                      Unfunded                                  [41,580]
                      requirement--ARC-
                      201D encrypted
                      radios.
028               GATM ROLLUP..........          37,403          37,403
029               RQ-7 UAV MODS........          83,160         194,160
                      Unfunded                                 [111,000]
                      requirement.
030               UAS MODS.............          26,109          26,429
                      Unfunded                                     [320]
                      requirement.
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
031               AIRCRAFT                       70,913          70,913
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
032               SURVIVABILITY CM.....           5,884           5,884
033               CMWS.................          26,825          26,825
034               COMMON INFRARED                 6,337           6,337
                   COUNTERMEASURES
                   (CIRCM).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
035               AVIONICS SUPPORT                7,038           7,038
                   EQUIPMENT.
036               COMMON GROUND                  47,404          56,304
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,800]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
                      Unfunded                                   [7,100]
                      requirement--Non
                      destructive test
                      equip.
037               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             47,066          47,066
                   SYSTEMS.
038               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..          83,790          84,905
                      Unfunded                                   [1,115]
                      requirement.
039               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES           1,397           1,397
040               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           1,911           1,911
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         4,149,894       5,593,561
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
001               LOWER TIER AIR AND            140,826         140,826
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (AMD).
002               MSE MISSILE..........         459,040         459,040
003               INDIRECT FIRE                  57,742          57,742
                   PROTECTION
                   CAPABILITY INC 2-I.
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
005               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          94,790          94,790
006               JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND           178,432         173,432
                   MSLS (JAGM).
                      Program decrease.                         [-5,000]
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
008               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)              110,123         118,235
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
                      Realign European                           [8,112]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
009               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          85,851          89,758
                      Realign European                           [3,907]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
010                  ADVANCE                     19,949          19,949
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            595,182         593,882
                   (GMLRS).
                      Program                                   [-2,800]
                      reduction--unit
                      cost savings.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,500]
                      requirement--trai
                      ning devices.
012               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             28,321          28,321
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
013               HIGH MOBILITY                                 476,728
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM (HIMARS.
                      Realign European                          [41,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [197,000]
                      requirement--ERI.
                      Unfunded                                 [238,728]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
                  MODIFICATIONS
015               PATRIOT MODS.........         329,073         329,073
016               ATACMS MODS..........         116,040         116,040
017               GMLRS MOD............             531             531
018               STINGER MODS.........          63,090          91,090
                      Realign European                          [28,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
019               AVENGER MODS.........          62,931          62,931
020               ITAS/TOW MODS........           3,500           3,500
021               MLRS MODS............         138,235         187,035
                      Unfunded                                  [48,800]
                      requirement.
022               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.           9,566           9,566
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
023               SPARES AND REPAIR              18,915          18,915
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES

[[Page H5654]]

 
024               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..           5,728           5,728
026               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,189           1,189
                   SUPPORT.
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,519,054       3,078,301
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               BRADLEY PROGRAM......                         200,000
                      Realign European                         [200,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
002               ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE         193,715         447,618
                   VEHICLE (AMPV).
                      Realign European                         [253,903]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
004               STRYKER (MOD)........          97,552          97,552
005               STRYKER UPGRADE......                         348,000
                      Unfunded                                 [348,000]
                      requirement -
                      completes 4th DVH
                      SBCT.
006               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         444,851         585,851
                      Realign European                          [30,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [111,000]
                      requirement.
007               M109 FOV                       64,230          64,230
                   MODIFICATIONS.
008               PALADIN INTEGRATED            646,413         772,149
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
                      Realign European                         [125,736]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
009               IMPROVED RECOVERY              72,402         194,402
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
                      Unfunded                                 [122,000]
                      requirement.
010               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           5,855           5,855
011               ASSAULT BREACHER               34,221          64,221
                   VEHICLE.
                      Unfunded                                  [30,000]
                      requirement.
012               M88 FOV MODS.........           4,826           4,826
013               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.         128,350         128,350
014               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         248,826         558,526
                      Realign European                         [138,700]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [171,000]
                      requirement.
015               ABRAMS UPGRADE                275,000       1,092,800
                   PROGRAM.
                      Realign European                         [442,800]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [375,000]
                      requirement.
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
018               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             1,992           3,292
                   GUN (7.62MM).
                      Unfunded                                   [1,300]
                      requirement.
019               MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR           6,520          58,520
                   ANTI-PERSONNEL
                   WEAPON S.
                      Unfunded                                  [52,000]
                      requirement.
020               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......          21,452          34,552
                      Unfunded                                  [13,100]
                      requirement--120m
                      m mortars.
021               XM320 GRENADE                   4,524           5,324
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
                      Unfunded                                     [800]
                      requirement.
023               CARBINE..............          43,150          51,150
                      Unfunded                                   [5,000]
                      requirement.
                      Unfunded                                   [3,000]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
024               COMMON REMOTELY                   750          10,750
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
                      Unfunded                                  [10,000]
                      requirement--modi
                      fications.
025               HANDGUN..............           8,326           8,726
                      Unfunded                                     [400]
                      requirement.
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
026               MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE           2,000           2,000
                   GUN MODS.
027               M777 MODS............           3,985          89,785
                      Unfunded                                  [85,800]
                      requirement.
028               M4 CARBINE MODS......          31,315          31,315
029               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN          47,414          52,414
                   MODS.
                      Unfunded                                   [2,600]
                      requirement--acce
                      ssories.
                      Unfunded                                   [2,400]
                      requirement--M2A1
                      machine guns.
030               M249 SAW MACHINE GUN            3,339           3,339
                   MODS.
031               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             4,577          11,177
                   GUN MODS.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,000]
                      requirement--acce
                      ssories.
                      Unfunded                                   [5,600]
                      requirement--M240
                      Ls.
032               SNIPER RIFLES                   1,488           1,488
                   MODIFICATIONS.
033               M119 MODIFICATIONS...          12,678          12,678
034               MORTAR MODIFICATION..           3,998           3,998
035               MODIFICATIONS LESS              2,219           2,219
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
036               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           5,075           7,775
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
                      Unfunded                                   [2,700]
                      requirement.
037               PRODUCTION BASE                   992             992
                   SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV).
039               SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT            1,573           1,573
                   (SOLDIER ENH PROG).
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
042               UNDISTRIBUTED........                           1,200
                      Security Force                             [1,200]
                      Assistance
                      Brigade.
                       TOTAL                  2,423,608       4,958,647
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               39,767          39,767
                   TYPES.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL               46,804          46,804
                   TYPES.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL              10,413          10,418
                   TYPES.
                      Realign European                               [5]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              62,837          62,958
                   TYPES.
                      Realign European                             [121]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.

[[Page H5655]]

 
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.           8,208           8,208
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           8,640           8,640
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          76,850         101,850
                      Realign European                          [25,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.         108,189         108,189
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               57,359          57,359
                   TYPES.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL               49,471          49,471
                   TYPES.
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL              91,528          91,528
                   TYPES.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             133,500         133,500
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          44,200          44,200
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,         187,149         187,149
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            49,000         251,545
                   RANGE M982.
                      Realign European                          [19,045]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [183,500]
                      requirement.
016               ARTILLERY                      83,046          99,724
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                      Realign European                          [16,678]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  MINES
017               MINES & CLEARING                3,942          15,557
                   CHARGES, ALL TYPES.
                      Realign European                          [11,615]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED               5,000           5,000
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL         161,155         161,155
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
021               CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES...           7,441           7,441
022               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,          19,345          19,345
                   ALL TYPES.
023               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          22,759          22,759
024               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           2,583           2,583
025               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES          13,084          13,084
                  MISCELLANEOUS
026               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL           12,237          12,237
                   TYPES.
027               NON-LETHAL                      1,500           1,500
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
028               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,730          10,730
                   MILLION (AMMO).
029               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            16,425          16,425
                   EQUIPMENT.
030               FIRST DESTINATION              15,221          15,221
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
032               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES         329,356         429,356
                      Unfunded                                 [100,000]
                      requirement.
033               CONVENTIONAL                  197,825         197,825
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
034               ARMS INITIATIVE......           3,719           3,719
                       TOTAL                  1,879,283       2,235,247
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/              9,716           9,716
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                  14,151          36,151
                   FLATBED:.
                      Unfunded                                  [22,000]
                      requirement--addi
                      tional M872s.
003               AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER,           53,000          87,792
                   5/4 TON, 4X4.
                      Unfunded                                  [34,792]
                      requirement.
004               GROUND MOBILITY                40,935          40,935
                   VEHICLES (GMV).
006               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          804,440         804,440
                   VEHICLE.
007               TRUCK, DUMP, 20T                  967             967
                   (CCE).
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               78,650         241,944
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
                      Unfunded                                 [154,100]
                      requirement--FMTV
                      s.
                      Unfunded                                   [9,194]
                      requirement--trai
                      lers.
009               FIRETRUCKS &                   19,404          19,404
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                81,656         114,658
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
                      Realign European                          [25,874]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                   [7,128]
                      requirement--forw
                      ard repair
                      systems.
011               PLS ESP..............           7,129          59,729
                      Unfunded                                  [52,600]
                      requirement.
012               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE                           150,878
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
                      Realign European                          [38,628]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                 [112,250]
                      requirement.
013               TACTICAL WHEELED               43,040          43,040
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
014               MODIFICATION OF IN             83,940          89,470
                   SVC EQUIP.
                      Realign European                           [2,599]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                   [2,931]
                      requirement--CTE
                      equipment.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
016               HEAVY ARMORED SEDAN..             269             269
017               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,320           1,320
                   VEHICLES.
018               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,           6,964           6,964
                   OTHER.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
019               WIN-T--GROUND FORCES          420,492         420,492
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
020               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION           92,718          92,718
                   PROGRAM.
021               TACTICAL NETWORK              150,497         227,997
                   TECHNOLOGY MOD IN
                   SVC.
                      Program reduction                        [-10,000]
                      Unfunded                                  [87,500]
                      requirement.
022               JOINT INCIDENT SITE             6,065           6,065
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   CAPABILITY.
023               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,051           5,051
                   (USREDCOM).
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS

[[Page H5656]]

 
024               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            161,383         161,383
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
025               TRANSPORTABLE                  62,600          62,600
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
026               SHF TERM.............          11,622          11,622
028               SMART-T (SPACE)......           6,799           6,799
029               GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--             7,065           7,065
                   GBS.
031               ENROUTE MISSION                21,667          21,667
                   COMMAND (EMC).
                  COMM--COMBAT SUPPORT
                   COMM
033               MOD-IN-SERVICE                     70              70
                   PROFILER.
                  COMM--C3 SYSTEM
034               ARMY GLOBAL CMD &               2,658           2,658
                   CONTROL SYS (AGCCS).
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
036               HANDHELD MANPACK              355,351         363,760
                   SMALL FORM FIT (HMS).
                      Unfunded                                   [8,409]
                      requirement.
037               MID-TIER NETWORKING            25,100          25,100
                   VEHICULAR RADIO
                   (MNVR).
038               RADIO TERMINAL SET,            11,160          11,160
                   MIDS LVT(2).
040               TRACTOR DESK.........           2,041           2,041
041               TRACTOR RIDE.........           5,534          13,734
                      Unfunded                                   [8,200]
                      requirement.
042               SPIDER APLA REMOTE                996             996
                   CONTROL UNIT.
043               SPIDER FAMILY OF                4,500           6,858
                   NETWORKED MUNITIONS
                   INCR.
                      Unfunded                                   [2,358]
                      requirement.
045               TACTICAL                        4,411           4,411
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
                   PROTECTIVE SYSTEM.
046               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE          15,275          15,275
047               FAMILY OF MED COMM             15,964          16,725
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                      Unfunded                                     [761]
                      requirement.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
049               CI AUTOMATION                   9,560           9,560
                   ARCHITECTURE.
050               DEFENSE MILITARY                4,030           4,030
                   DECEPTION INITIATIVE.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
054               COMMUNICATIONS                107,804         130,667
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
                      Unfunded                                  [22,863]
                      Requirement.
055               DEFENSIVE CYBER                53,436          61,436
                   OPERATIONS.
                      Unfunded                                   [8,000]
                      Requirement.
056               INSIDER THREAT                    690             690
                   PROGRAM--UNIT
                   ACTIVITY MONITO.
057               PERSISTENT CYBER                4,000           4,000
                   TRAINING ENVIRONMENT.
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
058               BASE SUPPORT                   43,751          51,290
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                      Unfunded                                   [7,539]
                      requirement--firs
                      t responder
                      communication
                      equipment.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
059               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..         118,101         118,101
060               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            4,490           4,490
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
061               HOME STATION MISSION           20,050          20,050
                   COMMAND CENTERS
                   (HSMCC).
062               INSTALLATION INFO             186,251         188,751
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                      Realign European                           [2,500]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
065               JTT/CIBS-M...........          12,154          19,754
                      Unfunded                                   [7,600]
                      requirement.
068               DCGS-A (MIP).........         274,782         295,494
                      Unfunded                                  [20,712]
                      requirement.
070               TROJAN (MIP).........          16,052          35,212
                      Realign European                           [6,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [13,160]
                      requirement.
071               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            51,034          51,034
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
072               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,815           7,815
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
073               CLOSE ACCESS TARGET             8,050           8,050
                   RECONNAISSANCE
                   (CATR).
074               MACHINE FOREIGN                   567             567
                   LANGUAGE TRANSLATION
                   SYSTEM-M.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
076               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            20,459          20,459
                   MORTAR RADAR.
077               EW PLANNING &                   5,805           5,805
                   MANAGEMENT TOOLS
                   (EWPMT).
078               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)...           5,348           5,348
081               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/              469           6,369
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                      Realign European                           [5,900]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
082               CI MODERNIZATION.....             285             285
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
083               SENTINEL MODS........          28,491         100,491
                      Unfunded                                  [72,000]
                      requirement.
084               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         166,493         229,389
                      Unfunded                                  [47,147]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
                      Unfunded                                  [15,749]
                      requirement--LTLM
                      enhancement.
085               SMALL TACTICAL                 13,947          13,947
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
087               INDIRECT FIRE                  21,380         456,003
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
                      Unfunded                                 [434,623]
                      requirement--Air
                      and Missile
                      Defense (SHORAD).
088               FAMILY OF WEAPON               59,105          59,105
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
089               ARTILLERY ACCURACY              2,129           2,129
                   EQUIP.
091               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--        282,549         344,949
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
                      Realign European                           [2,300]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [60,100]
                      requirement.
092               JOINT EFFECTS                  48,664          48,664
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
093               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             5,198           9,172
                   (LLDR).
                      Realign European                           [3,974]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
094               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:            8,117           8,117
                   LHMBC XM32.
095               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            31,813          47,588
                   SYSTEM.
                      Realign European                              [75]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.

[[Page H5657]]

 
                      Unfunded                                  [15,700]
                      requirement.
096               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...         329,057         393,257
                      Unfunded                                  [64,200]
                      requirement.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
097               FIRE SUPPORT C2                 8,700          13,458
                   FAMILY.
                      Unfunded                                   [4,758]
                      requirement.
098               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              26,635         132,713
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
                      Realign European                           [9,100]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [96,978]
                      requirement.
100               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             1,992           1,992
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
101               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             15,179          15,179
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
102               MANEUVER CONTROL              132,572         137,174
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
                      Unfunded                                   [4,602]
                      requirement.
103               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT          37,201          37,201
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
104               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL           16,140          16,140
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
105               RECONNAISSANCE AND              6,093          20,848
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
                      Unfunded                                  [14,755]
                      requirement.
106               MOD OF IN-SVC                   1,134           1,134
                   EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
107               ARMY TRAINING                  11,575          11,575
                   MODERNIZATION.
108               AUTOMATED DATA                 91,983          91,983
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
109               GENERAL FUND                    4,465           4,465
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
110               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            66,363          66,363
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
111               CONTRACT WRITING                1,001           1,001
                   SYSTEM.
112               RESERVE COMPONENT              26,183          26,183
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
113               TACTICAL DIGITAL                4,441           4,441
                   MEDIA.
114               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             3,414          16,414
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                      Unfunded                                  [10,000]
                      requirement.
                      Unfunded                                   [3,000]
                      requirement--glob
                      al positioning
                      system.
                  ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
115               PRODUCTION BASE                   499             499
                   SUPPORT (C-E).
116               BCT EMERGING                   25,050          25,050
                   TECHNOLOGIES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
116A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           4,819           4,819
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
117               PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS...           1,613           1,613
118               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL            9,696          23,696
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
                      Unfunded                                  [14,000]
                      Requirement.
120               CBRN DEFENSE.........          11,110          11,110
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
121               TACTICAL BRIDGING....          16,610          16,610
122               TACTICAL BRIDGE,               21,761          43,761
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
                      Unfunded                                  [22,000]
                      requirement.
124               COMMON BRIDGE                  21,046          61,446
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                      Unfunded                                  [40,400]
                      requirement.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
125               HANDHELD STANDOFF               5,000          17,800
                   MINEFIELD DETECTION
                   SYS-HST.
                      Unfunded                                   [5,600]
                      requirement--grow
                      the Army.
                      Unfunded                                   [7,200]
                      requirement--PSS-
                      14Cs.
126               GRND STANDOFF MINE             32,442          32,442
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
127               AREA MINE DETECTION            10,571          10,571
                   SYSTEM (AMDS).
128               HUSKY MOUNTED                  21,695          21,695
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
129               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  4,516          19,616
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
                      Unfunded                                  [15,100]
                      requirement--M160
                      s.
130               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS           10,073          15,073
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                      Unfunded                                   [5,000]
                      requiremet.
131               ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE           3,000           3,000
                   SYSTEMS.
133               REMOTE DEMOLITION               5,847           7,039
                   SYSTEMS.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,192]
                      requirement--radi
                      o frequency
                      remote activated
                      munitions.
134               < $5M, COUNTERMINE              1,530           1,530
                   EQUIPMENT.
135               FAMILY OF BOATS AND             4,302          12,302
                   MOTORS.
                      Unfunded                                   [8,000]
                      requirement.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
136               HEATERS AND ECU'S....           7,405          16,461
                      Unfunded                                   [9,056]
                      requirement.
137               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT..           1,095           1,095
138               PERSONNEL RECOVERY              5,390           5,390
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
139               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM          38,219          42,808
                      Unfunded                                   [4,589]
                      requirement.
140               MOBILE SOLDIER POWER.          10,456          12,018
                      Unfunded                                   [1,562]
                      requirement.
141               FORCE PROVIDER.......                          13,850
                      Unfunded                                  [13,850]
                      requirement.
142               FIELD FEEDING                  15,340          29,740
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unfunded                                  [14,400]
                      requirement.
143               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             30,607          30,607
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
144               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          10,426          18,900
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
                      Unfunded                                   [8,474]
                      requirement.
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
146               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            6,903           6,903
                   EQUIPMENT.
147               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          47,597          47,597
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT

[[Page H5658]]

 
148               COMBAT SUPPORT                 43,343          66,262
                   MEDICAL.
                      Realign European                          [21,122]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                   [1,797]
                      requirement.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
149               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             33,774          48,194
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
                      Realign European                           [1,124]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                      Unfunded                                  [13,296]
                      requirement--meta
                      l working and
                      machine shop sets.
150               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,728           3,682
                   (MAINT EQ).
                      Unfunded                                     [954]
                      requirement.
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
151               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,                989          15,719
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
                      Unfunded                                  [14,730]
                      requirement.
152               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING          11,180          11,180
154               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED                          48,679
                      Unfunded                                  [48,679]
                      requirement--T9
                      Dozers.
155               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...           8,935          11,935
                      Unfunded                                   [3,000]
                      requiremnt.
157               HIGH MOBILITY                  64,339          84,899
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
                      Unfunded                                  [20,560]
                      requirement.
158               ENHANCED RAPID                  2,563           2,563
                   AIRFIELD
                   CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.
160               CONST EQUIP ESP......          19,032          26,032
                      Unfunded                                   [7,000]
                      requirement--Engi
                      neer Mission
                      Modules and
                      Vibratory Rollers.
161               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           6,899          11,911
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                      Unfunded                                   [5,012]
                      requirement--wate
                      r well drill
                      systems.
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
162               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          20,110          20,110
163               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,877           2,877
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
164               GENERATORS AND                115,635         132,845
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                      Unfunded                                  [17,210]
                      requirement.
165               TACTICAL ELECTRIC               7,436           7,436
                   POWER
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
166               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..           9,000          10,635
                      Unfunded                                   [1,635]
                      requirement.
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
167               COMBAT TRAINING                88,888         126,638
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
                      Unfunded                                  [37,750]
                      requirement.
168               TRAINING DEVICES,             285,989         288,689
                   NONSYSTEM.
                      Realign European                           [2,700]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
169               CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL          45,718          45,718
                   TRAINER.
170               AVIATION COMBINED              30,568          30,568
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
171               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN            5,406          16,906
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                      Unfunded                                  [11,500]
                      requirement--SVCT
                      systems.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
172               CALIBRATION SETS                5,564           5,564
                   EQUIPMENT.
173               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           30,144          37,644
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
                      Realign European                           [7,500]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
174               TEST EQUIPMENT                  7,771           7,771
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
175               M25 STABILIZED                  3,956           3,956
                   BINOCULAR.
176               RAPID EQUIPPING                 5,000           5,000
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
177               PHYSICAL SECURITY              60,047          60,047
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
178               BASE LEVEL COMMON              13,239          13,239
                   EQUIPMENT.
179               MODIFICATION OF IN-            60,192          99,432
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
                      Unfunded                                  [29,240]
                      requirement--EOD
                      Technician Tool
                      Kits.
                      Unfunded                                   [2,000]
                      requirement--Rapi
                      dly Emplaced
                      Bridge System
                      Arctic Kit
                      Technical Manual
                      (TM) update.
                      Unfunded                                   [8,000]
                      requirement--Serv
                      ice Life
                      Extension Program
                      for the VOLCANO
                      system.
180               PRODUCTION BASE                 2,271           2,271
                   SUPPORT (OTH).
181               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR           5,319           5,319
                   USER TESTING.
182               TRACTOR YARD.........           5,935           5,935
                  OPA2
184               INITIAL SPARES--C&E..          38,269          38,269
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
185               UNDISTRIBUTED........                          56,000
                      Security Force                            [56,000]
                      Assistance
                      Brigade.
                       TOTAL OTHER            6,469,331       8,463,222
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPROVISED
                   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
                   DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               RAPID ACQUISITION AND          14,442          14,442
                   THREAT RESPONSE.
                       TOTAL JOINT               14,442          14,442
                       IMPROVISED-
                       THREAT DEFEAT
                       FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
002               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)         1,200,146       1,791,346
                   HORNET.
                      Unfunded                                 [591,200]
                      Requirement.
003                  ADVANCE                     52,971          52,971
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
004               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          582,324       1,102,324
                   CV.
                      Unfunded                                 [260,000]
                      Requirement--Mari
                      ne Corps.
                      Unfunded                                 [260,000]
                      Requirement--Navy.
005                  ADVANCE                    263,112         263,112
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
006               JSF STOVL............       2,398,139       2,860,739
                      Unfunded                                 [462,600]
                      Requirement.

[[Page H5659]]

 
007                  ADVANCE                    413,450         413,450
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)..         567,605         567,605
009                  ADVANCE                    147,046         147,046
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...         677,404       1,028,904
                      Multiyear                                [-25,000]
                      procurement
                      contract savings.
                      Unfunded                                 [376,500]
                      Requirement.
011                  ADVANCE                     27,422          27,422
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/          678,429         829,429
                   AH-1Z).
                      Unfunded                                 [157,500]
                      requirement -
                      additional AH-1Zs.
                      Unit cost savings                         [-6,500]
013                  ADVANCE                     42,082          42,082
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
016               P-8A POSEIDON........       1,245,251       1,751,751
                      P-8A.............                        [506,500]
017                  ADVANCE                    140,333         123,333
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Excess to need...                        [-17,000]
018               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         733,910         925,710
                      E-2D.............                        [201,800]
                      Excessive growth.                        [-10,000]
019                  ADVANCE                    102,026         102,026
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
022               KC-130J..............         129,577         484,877
                      KC-130J..........                        [355,300]
023                  ADVANCE                     25,497          25,497
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
024               MQ-4 TRITON..........         522,126         517,126
                      Excess cost                               [-5,000]
                      growth.
025                  ADVANCE                     57,266          57,266
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
026               MQ-8 UAV.............          49,472          49,472
027               STUASL0 UAV..........             880             880
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
030               AEA SYSTEMS..........          52,960          52,960
031               AV-8 SERIES..........          43,555          43,555
032               ADVERSARY............           2,565           2,565
033               F-18 SERIES..........       1,043,661       1,076,211
                      Unfunded                                  [32,550]
                      requirement--ALQ-
                      214 Retrofits.
034               H-53 SERIES..........          38,712          38,712
035               SH-60 SERIES.........          95,333          95,333
036               H-1 SERIES...........         101,886         101,886
037               EP-3 SERIES..........           7,231           7,231
038               P-3 SERIES...........             700             700
039               E-2 SERIES...........          97,563          97,563
040               TRAINER A/C SERIES...           8,184           8,184
041               C-2A.................          18,673          18,673
042               C-130 SERIES.........          83,541          83,541
043               FEWSG................             630             630
044               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C            10,075          10,075
                   SERIES.
045               E-6 SERIES...........         223,508         223,508
046               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS          38,787          38,787
                   SERIES.
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                 8,304           8,304
                   AIRCRAFT.
048               T-45 SERIES..........         148,071         148,071
049               POWER PLANT CHANGES..          19,827          19,827
050               JPATS SERIES.........          27,007          27,007
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         146,642         146,642
052               COMMON AVIONICS               123,507         123,507
                   CHANGES.
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                2,317           2,317
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
054               ID SYSTEMS...........          49,524          49,524
055               P-8 SERIES...........          18,665          18,665
056               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION          10,111          10,111
057               MQ-8 SERIES..........          32,361          32,361
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              228,321         228,321
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
060               F-35 STOVL SERIES....          34,963          34,963
061               F-35 CV SERIES.......          31,689          31,689
062               QRC..................          24,766          24,766
063               MQ-4 SERIES..........          39,996          39,996
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
064               SPARES AND REPAIR           1,681,914       1,882,514
                   PARTS.
                      Additional F-35                           [32,600]
                      Initial Spares.
                      Unfunded                                 [168,000]
                      requirement.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
065               COMMON GROUND                 388,052         405,552
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unfunded                                  [17,500]
                      requirement--F-18
                      C/D H12C Training
                      Systems for USMC.
066               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            24,613          24,613
                   FACILITIES.
067               WAR CONSUMABLES......          39,614          39,614
068               OTHER PRODUCTION                1,463           1,463
                   CHARGES.
069               SPECIAL SUPPORT                48,500          48,500
                   EQUIPMENT.
070               FIRST DESTINATION               1,976           1,976
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        15,056,235      18,414,785
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,143,595       1,143,595
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              7,086           7,086
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES

[[Page H5660]]

 
003               TOMAHAWK.............         134,375         134,375
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............         197,109         197,109
005               SIDEWINDER...........          79,692          79,692
006               JSOW.................           5,487           5,487
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         510,875         510,875
008               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB            20,968          20,968
                   II.
009               RAM..................          58,587         106,587
                      RAM BLK II.......                         [48,000]
010               JOINT AIR GROUND                3,789           3,789
                   MISSILE (JAGM).
013               STAND OFF PRECISION             3,122           3,122
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
014               AERIAL TARGETS.......         124,757         124,757
015               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,420           3,420
016               LRASM................          74,733          74,733
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
017               ESSM.................          74,524          74,524
019               HARPOON MODS.........          17,300          17,300
020               HARM MODS............         183,368         183,368
021               STANDARD MISSILES              11,729          11,729
                   MODS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
022               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              4,021           4,021
                   FACILITIES.
023               FLEET SATELLITE COMM           46,357          46,357
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
025               ORDNANCE SUPPORT               47,159          47,159
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
026               SSTD.................           5,240           5,240
027               MK-48 TORPEDO........          44,771          70,971
                      MK 48 HWT........                         [26,200]
028               ASW TARGETS..........          12,399          12,399
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
029               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...         104,044         104,044
030               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            38,954          38,954
                   MODS.
031               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....          10,337          10,337
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
032               TORPEDO SUPPORT                70,383          70,383
                   EQUIPMENT.
033               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,864           3,864
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
034               FIRST DESTINATION               3,961           3,961
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
035               SMALL ARMS AND                 11,332          11,332
                   WEAPONS.
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
036               CIWS MODS............          72,698          72,698
037               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          38,931          38,931
038               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          76,025          76,025
039               LCS MODULE WEAPONS...          13,110          13,110
040               CRUISER MODERNIZATION          34,825          34,825
                   WEAPONS.
041               AIRBORNE MINE                  16,925          16,925
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
043               SPARES AND REPAIR             110,255         110,255
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          3,420,107       3,494,307
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          34,882          34,882
002               JDAM.................          57,343          57,343
003               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          79,318          79,318
                   TYPES.
004               MACHINE GUN                    14,112          14,112
                   AMMUNITION.
005               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          47,027          47,027
006               CARTRIDGES & CART              57,718          57,718
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
007               AIR EXPENDABLE                 65,908          65,908
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
008               JATOS................           2,895           2,895
010               5 INCH/54 GUN                  22,112          22,112
                   AMMUNITION.
011               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           12,804          12,804
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
012               OTHER SHIP GUN                 41,594          41,594
                   AMMUNITION.
013               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           49,401          49,401
                   PARTY AMMO.
014               PYROTECHNIC AND                 9,495           9,495
                   DEMOLITION.
016               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            3,080           3,080
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
020               MORTARS..............          24,118          24,118
023               DIRECT SUPPORT                 64,045          64,045
                   MUNITIONS.
024               INFANTRY WEAPONS               91,456          91,456
                   AMMUNITION.
029               COMBAT SUPPORT                 11,788          11,788
                   MUNITIONS.
032               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          17,862          17,862
033               ARTILLERY MUNITIONS..          79,427          79,427
034               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,960           5,960
                   MILLION.
                       TOTAL                    792,345         792,345
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING AND
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  FLEET BALLISTIC
                   MISSILE SHIPS
001                  ADVANCE                    842,853         842,853
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
002               CARRIER REPLACEMENT         4,441,772       3,741,772
                   PROGRAM.
                      Early to need....                       [-700,000]

[[Page H5661]]

 
004               VIRGINIA CLASS              3,305,315       3,305,315
                   SUBMARINE.
005                  ADVANCE                  1,920,596       2,863,596
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      VA Class AP......                        [693,000]
                      VA Class EOQ.....                        [250,000]
006               CVN REFUELING               1,604,890       1,181,590
                   OVERHAULS.
                      CVN 73 MQ-25                              [26,700]
                      integration.
                      Early to need....                       [-450,000]
007                  ADVANCE                     75,897          75,897
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               DDG 1000.............         223,968         223,968
009               DDG-51...............       3,499,079       3,499,079
010                  ADVANCE                     90,336          90,336
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.         636,146         636,146
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
015               LHA REPLACEMENT......       1,710,927       1,210,927
                      Early to need....                       [-500,000]
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
018               TAO FLEET OILER......         465,988         465,988
019                  ADVANCE                     75,068          75,068
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
020               TOWING, SALVAGE, AND           76,204          76,204
                   RESCUE SHIP (ATS).
023               LCU 1700.............          31,850          31,850
024               OUTFITTING...........         548,703         548,703
025               SHIP TO SHORE                 212,554         212,554
                   CONNECTOR.
026               SERVICE CRAFT........          23,994          23,994
029               COMPLETION OF PY              117,542         117,542
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
                       TOTAL                 19,903,682      19,223,382
                       SHIPBUILDING AND
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
003               SURFACE POWER                  41,910          41,910
                   EQUIPMENT.
004               HYBRID ELECTRIC DRIVE           6,331           6,331
                   (HED).
                  GENERATORS
005               SURFACE COMBATANT              27,392          27,392
                   HM&E.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
006               OTHER NAVIGATION               65,943          65,943
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  PERISCOPES
007               SUB PERISCOPES &                               76,000
                   IMAGING EQUIP.
                      Submarine Warfare                         [76,000]
                      Federated Tactial
                      Systems.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
008               SUB PERISCOPE,                151,240         151,240
                   IMAGING AND SUPT
                   EQUIP PROG.
009               DDG MOD..............         603,355         702,355
                      CEC IFF Mode 5                             [4,000]
                      Acceleration.
                      Destroyer                                 [65,000]
                      modernization.
                      SPY-1                                     [30,000]
                      refurbishment.
010               FIREFIGHTING                   15,887          15,887
                   EQUIPMENT.
011               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,240           2,240
                   SWITCHBOARD.
012               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          30,287          30,287
014               POLLUTION CONTROL              17,293          17,293
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              27,990          27,990
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               VIRGINIA CLASS                 46,610          46,610
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
017               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              47,955          47,955
                   EQUIPMENT.
018               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          17,594          17,594
019               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              61,908          61,908
                   EQUIPMENT.
021               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             15,812          15,812
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
022               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......           4,178           4,178
023               CG MODERNIZATION.....         306,050         306,050
024               LCAC.................           5,507           5,507
025               UNDERWATER EOD                 55,922          59,938
                   PROGRAMS.
                      Realign European                           [4,016]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
026               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             96,909          96,909
                   MILLION.
027               CHEMICAL WARFARE                3,036           3,036
                   DETECTORS.
028               SUBMARINE LIFE                 10,364          10,364
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
029               REACTOR POWER UNITS..         324,925         324,925
030               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         534,468         534,468
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
031               DIVING AND SALVAGE             10,619          10,619
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
032               STANDARD BOATS.......          46,094          46,094
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
034               OPERATING FORCES IPE.         191,541         191,541
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
036               LCS COMMON MISSION             34,666          68,666
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
                      MCM-USV..........                         [34,000]
037               LCS MCM MISSION                55,870          55,870
                   MODULES.
039               LCS SUW MISSION                52,960          52,960
                   MODULES.
040               LCS IN-SERVICE                 74,426         158,426
                   MODERNIZATION.
                      LCS Modernization                         [84,000]
                  LOGISTIC SUPPORT
042               LSD MIDLIFE &                  89,536          89,536
                   MODERNIZATION.
                  SHIP SONARS
043               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          30,086          30,086
044               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW            102,222         102,222
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
046               SSN ACOUSTIC                  287,553         331,053
                   EQUIPMENT.

[[Page H5662]]

 
                      Realign European                          [43,500]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
047               UNDERSEA WARFARE               13,653          13,653
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
049               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             21,449          21,449
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
050               SSTD.................          12,867          12,867
051               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            300,102         300,102
                   SYSTEM.
052               SURTASS..............          30,180          40,180
                      SURTASS Array....                         [10,000]
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
054               AN/SLQ-32............         240,433         240,433
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
055               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         187,007         227,007
                      Ship Signal                               [40,000]
                      Exploitation
                      Equipment.
056               AUTOMATED                         510             510
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
058               COOPERATIVE                    23,892          23,892
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
060               NAVAL TACTICAL                 10,741          10,741
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
061               ATDLS................          38,016          38,016
062               NAVY COMMAND AND                4,512           4,512
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
063               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            31,531          31,531
                   REPLACEMENT.
064               SHALLOW WATER MCM....           8,796           8,796
065               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          15,923          15,923
                   (SPACE).
066               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           2,730           2,730
                   AND TV SERVICE.
067               STRATEGIC PLATFORM              6,889           6,889
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
070               ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT.          71,882          71,882
071               AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT.          44,611          44,611
077               ID SYSTEMS...........          21,239          21,239
078               NAVAL MISSION                  11,976          11,976
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
080               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            32,425          40,325
                   SYSTEMS.
                      Realign European                           [7,900]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
081               DCGS-N...............          13,790          15,690
                      Realign European                           [1,900]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
082               CANES................         322,754         322,754
083               RADIAC...............          10,718          10,718
084               CANES-INTELL.........          48,028          48,028
085               GPETE................           6,861           6,861
086               MASF.................           8,081           8,081
087               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM             5,019           5,019
                   TEST FACILITY.
088               EMI CONTROL                     4,188           4,188
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
089               ITEMS LESS THAN $5            105,292         105,292
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
090               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL             23,695          23,695
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
091               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS           103,990         103,990
                   AUTOMATION.
092               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           18,577          18,577
                   UNDER $5M.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
093               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            29,669          29,669
                   SUPPORT.
094               SUBMARINE                      86,204          86,204
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
095               SATELLITE                      14,654          14,654
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.
096               NAVY MULTIBAND                 69,764          69,764
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
097               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            4,256           4,256
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
099               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY          89,663          89,663
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
100               MIO INTEL                         961             961
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
101               CRYPTOLOGIC                    11,287          11,287
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
110               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT          36,584          36,584
                  SONOBUOYS
112               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.         173,616         198,516
                      Sonobuoys........                         [24,900]
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
113               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT          72,110          72,110
                   EQUIPMENT.
114               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT              108,482         115,982
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      EMALS initial                              [7,500]
                      spares.
115               ADVANCED ARRESTING             10,900          10,900
                   GEAR (AAG).
116               METEOROLOGICAL                 21,137          21,137
                   EQUIPMENT.
117               DCRS/DPL.............             660             660
118               AIRBORNE MINE                  20,605          20,605
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
119               AVIATION SUPPORT               34,032          34,032
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
120               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                5,277           5,277
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
121               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          272,359         272,359
                   EQUIPMENT.
122               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               73,184          73,184
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
123               STRATEGIC MISSILE             246,221         246,221
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
124               SSN COMBAT CONTROL            129,972         129,972
                   SYSTEMS.
125               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          23,209          23,209

[[Page H5663]]

 
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
126               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             15,596          15,596
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
127               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,981           5,981
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
128               SUBMARINE TRAINING             74,550          74,550
                   DEVICE MODS.
130               SURFACE TRAINING               83,022          83,022
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
131               PASSENGER CARRYING              5,299           5,299
                   VEHICLES.
132               GENERAL PURPOSE                 2,946           3,052
                   TRUCKS.
                      Realign European                             [106]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
133               CONSTRUCTION &                 34,970          34,970
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
134               FIRE FIGHTING                   2,541           2,541
                   EQUIPMENT.
135               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          19,699          19,699
136               AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT.          12,162          12,162
137               POLLUTION CONTROL               2,748           2,748
                   EQUIPMENT.
138               ITEMS UNDER $5                 18,084          18,084
                   MILLION.
139               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,170           1,170
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
141               SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.....          21,797          21,961
                      Realign European                             [164]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
143               FIRST DESTINATION               5,572           5,572
                   TRANSPORTATION.
144               SPECIAL PURPOSE               482,916         482,916
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
146               TRAINING AND                   25,624          25,624
                   EDUCATION EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
147               COMMAND SUPPORT                59,076          59,076
                   EQUIPMENT.
149               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 4,383           4,383
                   EQUIPMENT.
151               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               2,030           2,030
                   EQUIPMENT.
152               OPERATING FORCES                7,500           7,500
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
153               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......           4,010           4,010
154               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          23,644          24,644
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Realign European                           [1,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
155               PHYSICAL SECURITY             101,982         101,982
                   EQUIPMENT.
156               ENTERPRISE                     19,789          19,789
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
160               NEXT GENERATION               104,584         104,584
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
161A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          23,707          23,707
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
161               SPARES AND REPAIR             278,565         290,565
                   PARTS.
                      E-2D AHE.........                         [12,000]
                       TOTAL OTHER            8,277,789       8,723,775
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........         107,665         107,665
002               AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT             161,511         161,511
                   VEHICLE 1.1.
003               LAV PIP..............          17,244          17,244
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
004               EXPEDITIONARY FIRE                626             626
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
005               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT              20,259          20,259
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
006               HIGH MOBILITY                  59,943          59,943
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM.
007               WEAPONS AND COMBAT             19,616          19,616
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
008               MODIFICATION KITS....          17,778          17,778
                  GUIDED MISSILES
010               GROUND BASED AIR                9,432           9,432
                   DEFENSE.
011               JAVELIN..............          41,159          41,159
012               FOLLOW ON TO SMAW....          25,125          25,125
013               ANTI-ARMOR WEAPONS             51,553          51,553
                   SYSTEM-HEAVY (AAWS-
                   H).
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
016               COMMON AVIATION                44,928          44,928
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
017               REPAIR AND TEST                33,056          33,056
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
020               ITEMS UNDER $5                 17,644          17,644
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
021               AIR OPERATIONS C2              18,393          18,393
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
022               RADAR SYSTEMS........          12,411          12,411
023               GROUND/AIR TASK               139,167         139,167
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
024               RQ-21 UAS............          77,841          77,841
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
025               GCSS-MC..............           1,990           1,990
026               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..          22,260          22,260
027               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           55,759          55,759
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS           10,154          10,154
                   (INTEL).
030               DCGS-MC..............          13,462          13,462
031               UAS PAYLOADS.........          14,193          14,193
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
035               NEXT GENERATION                98,511          98,511
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
036               COMMON COMPUTER                66,894          66,894
                   RESOURCES.
037               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.         186,912         186,912
038               RADIO SYSTEMS........          34,361          34,361

[[Page H5664]]

 
039               COMM SWITCHING &               54,615          54,615
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
040               COMM & ELEC                    44,455          44,455
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           4,214           4,214
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
042               COMMERCIAL CARGO               66,951          66,951
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
043               MOTOR TRANSPORT                21,824          21,824
                   MODIFICATIONS.
044               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          233,639         233,639
                   VEHICLE.
045               FAMILY OF TACTICAL              1,938           1,938
                   TRAILERS.
046               TRAILERS.............          10,282          10,282
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
048               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL           1,405           1,405
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
050               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS           1,788           1,788
051               POWER EQUIPMENT                 9,910           9,910
                   ASSORTED.
052               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              5,830           5,830
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               EOD SYSTEMS..........          27,240          27,240
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
054               PHYSICAL SECURITY              53,477          53,477
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
056               TRAINING DEVICES.....          76,185          85,064
                      Unfunded                                   [8,879]
                      requirement.
058               FAMILY OF                      26,286          26,286
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
059               FAMILY OF INTERNALLY            1,583           1,583
                   TRANSPORTABLE VEH
                   (ITV).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
060               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              7,716           7,716
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
062               SPARES AND REPAIR              35,640          35,640
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                  2,064,825       2,073,704
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       4,544,684       5,804,684
                      Additional                                [60,000]
                      Tooling in
                      Support of
                      Unfunded Priority.
                      Unfunded                               [1,200,000]
                      requirement.
002                  ADVANCE                    780,300         780,300
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
003               KC-46A TANKER........       2,545,674       2,945,674
                      KC-46A...........                        [400,000]
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............          57,708          57,708
006               HC-130J..............         198,502         298,502
                      HC-130J..........                        [100,000]
008               MC-130J..............         379,373         979,373
                      MC-130J..........                        [600,000]
009                  ADVANCE                     30,000          30,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT
012               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,695           2,695
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
014               TARGET DRONES........         109,841         109,841
017               MQ-9.................         117,141         117,141
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
018               B-2A.................          96,727         105,727
                      B-2 Rotary                                 [9,000]
                      Launcher assembly.
019               B-1B.................         155,634         121,634
                      Duplicate funding                        [-34,000]
                      of F101 engine
                      kits.
020               B-52.................         109,295         109,295
021               LARGE AIRCRAFT                  4,046         122,991
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                      C-130 LAIRCM.....                         [18,900]
                      C-17 LAIRCM......                         [76,145]
                      C-5 LAIRCM.......                         [23,900]
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
022               A-10.................           6,010         109,010
                      Unfunded                                 [103,000]
                      Requirement.
023               F-15.................         417,193         417,193
024               F-16.................         203,864         203,864
025               F-22A................         161,630         161,630
026                  ADVANCE                     15,000          15,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
027               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...          68,270          68,270
028               INCREMENT 3.2B.......         105,756         105,756
030               KC-46A TANKER........           6,213           6,213
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
031               C-5..................          36,592          36,592
032               C-5M.................           6,817           6,817
033               C-17A................         125,522         125,522
034               C-21.................          13,253          13,253
035               C-32A................          79,449          79,449
036               C-37A................          15,423          15,423
037               C-130J...............          10,727          10,727
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
038               GLIDER MODS..........             136             136
039               T-6..................          35,706          35,706
040               T-1..................          21,477          21,477

[[Page H5665]]

 
041               T-38.................          51,641          51,641
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
042               U-2 MODS.............          36,406          36,406
043               KC-10A (ATCA)........           4,243           4,243
044               C-12.................           5,846          70,846
                      MC-12W upgrades                           [65,000]
                      for Air National
                      Guard.
045               VC-25A MOD...........          52,107          52,107
046               C-40.................          31,119          31,119
047               C-130................          66,310         213,310
                      C-130H Inflight                           [18,000]
                      rebalance system.
                      C-130H NP2000                             [55,000]
                      Prop.
                      C-130H T56 3.5...                         [74,000]
048               C-130J MODS..........         171,230         171,230
049               C-135................          69,428          69,428
050               OC-135B..............          23,091          23,091
051               COMPASS CALL MODS....         166,541         166,541
052               COMBAT FLIGHT                     495             495
                   INSPECTION (CFIN).
053               RC-135...............         201,559         201,559
054               E-3..................         189,772         189,772
055               E-4..................          30,493          30,493
056               E-8..................          13,232          13,232
057               AIRBORNE WARNING AND          164,786         164,786
                   CONTROL SYSTEM.
058               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         24,716          24,716
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
059               H-1..................           3,730           3,730
060               H-60.................          75,989          92,089
                      Unfunded                                  [16,100]
                      requirement.
061               RQ-4 MODS............          43,968          62,268
                      HA-ISR Payload                            [18,300]
                      Adapters.
062               HC/MC-130                      67,674          67,674
                   MODIFICATIONS.
063               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          59,068          59,068
065               MQ-9 MODS............         264,740         269,940
                      FY17 10th Pod Set                          [5,200]
                      Procurement
                      Shortfall.
066               CV-22 MODS...........          60,990          60,990
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
067               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR       1,041,569       1,121,169
                   PARTS.
                      Additional F-35                           [79,600]
                      Initial Spares.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
068               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT           75,846         101,263
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                      Realign European                          [25,417]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
069               OTHER PRODUCTION                8,524           8,524
                   CHARGES.
071               T-53A TRAINER........             501             501
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
072               B-2A.................             447             447
073               B-2A.................          38,509          38,509
074               B-52.................             199             199
075               C-17A................          12,028          12,028
078               RC-135...............          29,700          29,700
079               F-15.................          20,000          20,000
080               F-15.................           2,524           2,524
081               F-16.................          18,051           5,651
                      Program reduction                        [-12,400]
082               F-22A................         119,566         119,566
083               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          85,000          85,000
085               RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION           86,695          86,695
                   CHARGES.
086               CV-22 MODS...........           4,500           4,500
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
087               INDUSTRIAL                     14,739          30,739
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                      Program increase.                         [16,000]
088               C-130J...............         102,000         102,000
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
089               WAR CONSUMABLES......          37,647          37,647
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
090               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,339,160       1,339,160
                   CHARGES.
092               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......             600             600
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
092A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          53,212          53,212
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        15,430,849      18,348,011
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT--BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            99,098          99,098
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
002               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             441,367         441,367
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
003               LRASM0...............          44,728          61,728
                      LRASM............                         [17,000]
004               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         125,350         125,350
005               AMRAAM...............         304,327         304,327
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE              34,867          34,867
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..         266,030         266,030
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
008               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             926             926
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
009               ICBM FUZE MOD........           6,334           6,334

[[Page H5666]]

 
010               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          80,109          80,109
011               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....             289             289
013               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              36,425          36,425
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
014               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          14,086          14,086
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
015               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         101,153         101,153
                   PARTS.
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
020               SPECIAL UPDATE                 32,917          32,917
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
020A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         708,176         708,176
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,296,182       2,313,182
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
001               ADVANCED EHF.........          56,974          56,974
002               AF SATELLITE COMM              57,516          57,516
                   SYSTEM.
003               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS.          28,798          28,798
004               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-        146,972         146,972
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
005               WIDEBAND GAPFILLER             80,849         180,849
                   SATELLITES(SPACE).
                      Long-lead                                [100,000]
                      procurement for
                      protecting supply
                      chain and
                      schedule for WGS
                      communications.
006               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT          85,894          85,894
007               GLOBAL POSTIONING               2,198           2,198
                   (SPACE).
008               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               25,048          25,048
                   (COMSEC).
010               MILSATCOM............          33,033          33,033
011               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            957,420         957,420
                   LAUNCH CAPABILITY.
012               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            606,488         606,488
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
013               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         981,009       1,057,359
                      AF UPL--fully                             [44,900]
                      fund emerging
                      cyber security
                      requirement.
                      AF UPL--procure                           [15,450]
                      commercially
                      available antenna.
                      AF UPL upgrades                           [16,000]
                      ground antenna.
014                  ADVANCE                    132,420         132,420
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
015               NUDET DETECTION                 6,370           6,370
                   SYSTEM.
016               SPACE MODS...........          37,203          37,203
017               SPACELIFT RANGE               113,874         113,874
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
                  SSPARES
018               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          18,709          18,709
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL SPACE            3,370,775       3,547,125
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............         147,454         147,454
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         161,744         161,744
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          28,509          28,509
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         329,501         329,501
005               MASSIVE ORDNANCE               38,382          38,382
                   PENETRATOR (MOP).
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           319,525         319,525
                   MUNITION.
007               B61..................          77,068          77,068
008                  ADVANCE                     11,239          11,239
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER ITEMS
009               CAD/PAD..............          53,469          53,469
010               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              5,921           5,921
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
011               SPARES AND REPAIR                 678             678
                   PARTS.
012               MODIFICATIONS........           1,409           1,409
013               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,047           5,047
                   MILLION.
                  FLARES
015               FLARES...............         143,983         143,983
                  FUZES
016               FUZES................          24,062          24,062
                  SMALL ARMS
017               SMALL ARMS...........          28,611          28,611
                       TOTAL                  1,376,602       1,376,602
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING             15,651          17,001
                   VEHICLES.
                      Realign European                           [1,350]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                54,607          54,607
                   VEHICLE.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........           1,011           1,011
004               CARGO AND UTILITY              28,670          28,670
                   VEHICLES.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               SECURITY AND TACTICAL          59,398          59,398
                   VEHICLES.
006               SPECIAL PURPOSE                19,784          51,605
                   VEHICLES.
                      Realign European                          [31,821]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            14,768          37,351
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                      Realign European                          [22,583]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               MATERIALS HANDLING             13,561          17,587
                   VEHICLES.
                      Realign European                           [4,026]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT

[[Page H5667]]

 
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             3,429          12,590
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
                      Realign European                           [9,161]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
010               BASE MAINTENANCE               60,075          99,767
                   SUPPORT VEHICLES.
                      Realign European                          [39,692]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
011               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....         115,000         123,000
                      Unfunded                                   [8,000]
                      requirement.
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
013               INTERNATIONAL INTEL            22,335          22,335
                   TECH & ARCHITECTURES.
014               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           5,892           5,892
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               INTELLIGENCE COMM              34,072          34,072
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
016               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          66,143          66,143
                   LANDING SYS.
017               NATIONAL AIRSPACE              12,641          12,641
                   SYSTEM.
018               BATTLE CONTROL                  6,415           6,415
                   SYSTEM--FIXED.
019               THEATER AIR CONTROL            23,233          23,233
                   SYS IMPROVEMENTS.
020               WEATHER OBSERVATION            40,116          40,116
                   FORECAST.
021               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND          72,810          72,810
                   CONTROL.
022               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN               9,864           9,864
                   COMPLEX.
023               MISSION PLANNING               15,486          15,486
                   SYSTEMS.
025               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,187           9,187
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
026               GENERAL INFORMATION            51,826          51,826
                   TECHNOLOGY.
027               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &             3,634           3,634
                   CONTROL SYS.
028               MOBILITY COMMAND AND           10,083          10,083
                   CONTROL.
029               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL            201,866         201,866
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
030               COMBAT TRAINING               115,198         115,198
                   RANGES.
031               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL                 292             292
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
032               WIDE AREA                      62,087          62,087
                   SURVEILLANCE (WAS).
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...          37,764          37,764
034               GCSS-AF FOS..........           2,826           2,826
035               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE              1,514           1,514
                   ACCOUNTING AND MGMT
                   SYSTEM.
036               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           9,646           9,646
                   SYSTEM.
037               AIR & SPACE                    25,533          25,533
                   OPERATIONS CTR-WPN
                   SYS.
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
040               BASE INFORMATION               28,159          28,159
                   TRANSPT INFRAST
                   (BITI) WIRED.
041               AFNET................         160,820         186,820
                      Unfunded                                  [26,000]
                      requirement.
042               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            5,135           5,135
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
043               USCENTCOM............          18,719          18,719
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
044               TACTICAL C-E                  123,206         123,206
                   EQUIPMENT.
045               COMBAT SURVIVOR                 3,004           3,004
                   EVADER LOCATER.
046               RADIO EQUIPMENT......          15,736          15,736
047               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                5,480           5,480
                   EQUIPMENT.
048               BASE COMM                     130,539         185,539
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                      Realign European                          [55,000]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  MODIFICATIONS
049               COMM ELECT MODS......          70,798          70,798
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
051               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             52,964          53,464
                   MILLION.
                      Unfunded                                     [500]
                      requirement--Inst
                      ructor Training
                      Parachutes.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
052               MECHANIZED MATERIAL            10,381          10,381
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
053               BASE PROCURED                  15,038          27,538
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program increase--                         [5,000]
                      Civil Engineers
                      Construction,
                      Surveying, and
                      Mapping Equipment.
                      Realign European                           [7,500]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
054               ENGINEERING AND EOD            26,287          26,287
                   EQUIPMENT.
055               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...           8,470           8,470
056               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             28,768         132,783
                   MILLION.
                      Realign European                         [104,015]
                      Reassurance
                      Initiative to
                      Base.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
058               DARP RC135...........          25,985          25,985
059               DCGS-AF..............         178,423         178,423
061               SPECIAL UPDATE                840,980         840,980
                   PROGRAM.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
062A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      16,601,513      16,601,513
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
064               SPARES AND REPAIR              26,675          26,675
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           19,603,497      19,918,145
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
042               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          36,999          36,999
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
041               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             5,938           5,938
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
045               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.          10,529          10,529
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
007               INFORMATION SYSTEMS            24,805          24,805
                   SECURITY.
008               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          46,638          46,638
009               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             15,541          15,541
                   MILLION.

[[Page H5668]]

 
010               NET CENTRIC                     1,161           1,161
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICES
                   (NCES).
011               DEFENSE INFORMATION           126,345         126,345
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
012               CYBER SECURITY                  1,817           1,817
                   INITIATIVE.
013               WHITE HOUSE                    45,243          45,243
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
014               SENIOR LEADERSHIP             294,139         294,139
                   ENTERPRISE.
016               JOINT REGIONAL                188,483         188,483
                   SECURITY STACKS
                   (JRSS).
017               JOINT SERVICE                 100,783         100,783
                   PROVIDER.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
019               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           2,951           2,951
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
023               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           1,073           1,073
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
001               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              1,475           1,475
                   MILLION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
043               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.           9,341           9,341
044               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS--            903             903
                   CE2T2.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
027               THAAD................         451,592         770,992
                      Procure                                  [319,400]
                      additional THAAD
                      interceptors.
028               AEGIS BMD............         425,018         583,018
                      Additional SM-3                          [158,000]
                      Block 1B.
029                  ADVANCE                     38,738          38,738
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
030               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.             947             947
033               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE             59,739          59,739
                   III.
034               IRON DOME............          42,000          42,000
035               AEGIS BMD HARDWARE            160,330         160,330
                   AND SOFTWARE.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                      14,588          14,588
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
025               VEHICLES.............             204             204
026               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT          12,363          12,363
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
021               AUTOMATION/                     1,910           1,910
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           4,347           4,347
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......          13,464          13,464
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
045A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         657,759         657,759
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
049               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          158,988         151,488
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
                      Per SOCOM                                 [-7,500]
                      requested
                      realignment.
050               UNMANNED ISR.........          13,295          13,295
051               NON-STANDARD AVIATION           4,892           4,892
052               U-28.................           5,769           5,769
053               MH-47 CHINOOK........          87,345          87,345
055               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          42,178          42,178
057               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL           21,660          21,660
                   VEHICLE.
059               PRECISION STRIKE              229,728         229,728
                   PACKAGE.
060               AC/MC-130J...........         179,934         179,934
061               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          28,059          28,059
                  SHIPBUILDING
062               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          92,606          79,806
                      Per SOCOM                                [-12,800]
                      requested
                      realignment.
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
063               ORDNANCE ITEMS 
