

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2649-S2650]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      RECOGNIZING HOOSIER CROSSFIT

 Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, my home State of Indiana takes pride 
in its long tradition of Hoosier innovation and small business 
entrepreneurship. Hoosier businesses across Indiana strive to create 
quality products and services that become integral parts of their local 
communities. During National Small Business Week, I would like to take 
the opportunity to recognize one such small business. Located in 
Bloomington, IN, Hoosier CrossFit is well known for its strong 
commitment to its core values: community, quality, accountability, 
diligence, and integrity. As a member of the Senate Committee on Small 
Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to recognize Hoosier 
CrossFit as one of Indiana's outstanding small businesses during 
National Small Business Week.
  Hoosier CrossFit is owned and operated by husband and wife Shaun and 
Jenna Tieman. The Tiemans, both born and raised in Indiana, are hard-
working Hoosier entrepreneurs who opened Hoosier CrossFit, then an 
1,800-square-foot facility with four gym members, in 2010. By 2013, 
Hoosier CrossFit had moved to a 5,600 square foot facility with 150 
members. Today Hoosier CrossFit and the Tiemans are gearing up for yet 
another expansion as they plan to move their 200-member gym to a brand-
new, 8,600 square foot facility in Bloomington. Hoosier CrossFit offers 
programs for all ages and abilities and the 200-member community spans 
in age from 8 years old to 75 years old.
  Hoosier CrossFit is not just to be admired for its business success 
or the community of Hoosiers that it has inspired and brought together 
over the

[[Page S2650]]

years. They are also to be commended for their community involvement, 
whether it be organizing its largest annual fundraiser, Murph, which 
honors U.S. Navy Seal Michael P. Murphy who was killed in action in 
Afghanistan, or raising over $30,000 for the American Red Cross and 
Wish for Our Heroes, Hoosier CrossFit is a small business that all 
Hoosiers can be proud of. I would like to extend my sincerest 
congratulations to the employees, owners, and entire community at 
Hoosier CrossFit for earning this recognition during National Small 
Business Week. You make our great State proud, and I look forward to 
watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



