

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4593]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              MEMORIAL DAY

  (Mr. YOHO asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this time to honor our 
country's fallen servicemen and -women. This weekend, we will observe 
Memorial Day, a day dedicated to those who have fought and died 
selflessly to protect our country.
  Since 1868, Americans have celebrated what was once called Decoration 
Day to honor the fallen. Every year since then, we have honored those 
who have fallen at Gettysburg, at San Juan Hill, in the Argonne Forest, 
on the shores of Normandy and Guadalcanal, at Inchon, at la Drang, in 
the desert at Objective Norfolk, on the streets of Fallujah, and in 
Zabul Province.
  This important day is not only meant to commemorate those who lost 
their lives fighting for our country but also to highlight why they 
were called upon to serve our country in battle. They fought to 
preserve the great privilege of freedom that we must never take for 
granted.
  America's promise of liberty would not be possible without the 
courage and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. We owe these 
patriots a debt that can never be repaid but that must be remembered 
always, not just on Memorial Day.
  This day of remembrance is a solemn occasion, and, therefore, let us 
not only say prayers for the fallen, let's also celebrate their lives 
and give heartfelt thanks to God and their families for their 
sacrifices in protecting our Nation, the world's bastion of liberty and 
freedom.

                          ____________________



