

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2914]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO JACK YOUNG

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week, I have the distinct 
honor of recognizing Jack Young, a U.S. Army veteran and teacher at 
Harlem Public Schools. Whether serving our Nation inside an Abrams tank 
or serving his local community at the front of a classroom, Jack has 
represented the character of the Treasure State in both settings.
  After graduating from high school, Jack enlisted in the Army. He 
served our Nation on Active Duty for 4 years and completed two overseas 
assignments. Not long after finishing his military service, Jack 
attended Montana State University--Northern and trained to become a 
teacher. In 2006, he began teaching at Harlem Public Schools. Since 
arriving in Blaine County, he has grown into a fixture in the local 
community. Jack has taught history and government to both high school 
and junior high school students. During the warm months, you will find 
Jack in the classroom teaching summer school, helping students rise to 
the next level academically. For the past 4 years, he has taught 
government courses at the Aaniiih Nakoda College. Earlier in his 
teaching career, Jack was an assistant coach for the Harlem Wildcats 
football team. Through all seasons and across multiple academic levels, 
Jack has served his fellow Montanans by teaching the historic context 
and hard-earned value of our constitutional system of government.
  Jack has excelled in his transition from a tanker to a teacher. The 
best part of Jack's story is he loves what he does and plans to 
continue doing it for a long time. Montanans are grateful for folks 
like Jack who make our communities stronger. Thank you, Jack, for your 
service, and I wish you the best in the years to come.

                          ____________________



