

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3912]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF WATT GLOBAL MEDIA

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to take a few minutes to recognize 
WATT Global Media, a leading provider of business information and 
marketing solutions for the agribusiness industry worldwide, 
headquartered in Rockford, IL. More than 100 years ago, on July 6, 
1917, WATT Global Media was born.
  WATT Global Media's history began in 1917, when J.W. Watt and Adon 
Yoder purchased ``Poultry Tribune,'' a magazine published monthly for 
just 50 cents for an annual subscription. Before Watt and Yoder bought 
the magazine, its circulation was about 5,000. In a few short years, 
these young entrepreneurs grew the magazine's circulation by 400 
percent. Under Watt's leadership, ``Poultry Tribune'' quickly became 
``America's Leading Poultry Farm Magazine'' for poultry raisers, 
peaking in 1940 with a circulation of more than half a million readers.
  During the mid-1920s, economic changes in the poultry industry led to 
the creation of the commercial hatchery industry, which led the staff 
at ``Poultry Tribune'' to create ``Hatchery Tribune.'' In 1934, Watt 
added ``Turkey World'' to its growing list of publications. WATT Global 
Media, originally called the Poultry Tribune Company, changed its name 
in 1944 to Watt Publishing Company. In that same year, the company 
acquired Better Farming Methods, ``The business magazine for leaders 
who train and advise farmers.'' As the evolving poultry industry grew, 
so did Watt Publishing Company.
  In 1949, Leslie Watt--the second generation of family leadership--was 
named president of Watt Publishing Company and expanded the company 
into international markets, acquiring ``Industria Avicola,'' a Spanish 
language magazine targeting the Latin American poultry industry. In 
1962, ``Poultry International'' was created to cater to the poultry and 
egg industries throughout Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Asia. In the 
1980s, Leslie Watt took Watt Publishing Company to China by 
establishing ``Poultry International China Edition'' and became one of 
the first publishers from North America to make Chinese language 
business-to-business magazines in the People's Republic of China.
  In the 1990s, under James W. Watt--the third generation of family 
leadership--the company expanded its portfolio to include pet food. In 
1993, the Petfood Forum was created and grew into the world's largest 
annual event of its kind. Overnight, Watt became the global pet food 
market leader for business information--what an accomplishment.
  Greg Watt--the fourth generation President and CEO--modernized the 
company by taking it into the 21st century, expanding across multiple 
media channels, including online and digital platforms, live events, 
and magazine channels. In recognition of its global audience, the Watt 
Publishing Company changed its name to WATT Global Media in 2014. 
Today, WATT Global Media serves 180,000 professionals in the pet food, 
poultry, pig, and animal feed industries from over 140 countries.
  I will close with this: In 1907, J.W. Watt came to this country from 
the Orkney Islands, just north of Scotland. He came in search of the 
American Dream, and boy, did he find it. Despite WATT Global Media's 
growth and many achievements, its proudest accomplishment is that it 
has been family-owned for 100 years, and this family business isn't 
going anywhere. I want to thank J.W. Watt, Leslie Watt, James W. Watt, 
and Greg Watt--four generations from the Watts family--for their 
service to Rockford, Illinois, America, and throughout the world. I 
know the good people at WATT Global Media will continue its simple 
guiding mission: ``to improve the health and well-being of people and 
animals across the globe.''
  I hope my colleagues will join me in congratulating WATT Global Media 
on 100 years of accomplishments, and I wish them all the best for 
another century of success.

                          ____________________



