

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4113]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              FLEXIBILITY TO PROVIDE LOW-FAT FLAVORED MILK

  (Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, last Congress I introduced 
bipartisan legislation to give schools the flexibility to provide low-
fat flavored milk as a part of the National School Lunch Program.
  I am happy to announce that the omnibus bill we passed yesterday 
contains language from my legislation and allows the Secretary of the 
Department of Agriculture to grant exemptions to schools that wish to 
provide students with flavored, nutritional, low-fat fluid milk at 
breakfast and lunch.
  Mr. Speaker, milk is the number one source of nine essential 
nutrients in young Americans' diets and provides multiple health 
benefits, including better bone health, lower blood pressure, and 
reduced risk of cardiovascular disease or type 2 diabetes.
  Consumption of milk in schools has been on the decline for several 
years, despite the fact that public school enrollment continues to 
grow. Not only is the declining consumption detrimental to the health 
of young people, but it is adversely affecting our Nation's dairy 
farmers.
  The bottom line is, if children won't consume milk, there is no way 
it can be nutritious. I am glad to see flavored milk back in our school 
cafeterias.
  Mr. Speaker, on this National Day of Prayer, there will be today, 
with the bills being considered, many words and powerful words being 
spoken here today, but none more powerful spoken on this day, the 
National Day of Prayer, in our Capitol, than three words: Let us pray.

                          ____________________



