

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4933]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      THANKING THE KELLETT FAMILY FOR THEIR SERVICE TO OUR COUNTRY

  (Mr. BACON asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, in light of yesterday's tragedy, I think it 
is important to remember those who keep our communities safe, including 
our military, law enforcement, and first responders. In addition to 
those groups, I believe educators are also heroes.
  Today, I want to highlight a family from my hometown of Papillion, 
Nebraska, the Kelletts, whose story represents what it means to be 
heroes and servants of our Nation.
  Bill Kellett recently retired as the director of the Papillion-La 
Vista South High School band, and was a music educator for 33 years. 
His students were featured in two Presidential inaugural parades and 
marched in the 2000 millennium celebration in London.
  His wife, Andrea, is also a longtime educator who taught history and 
directed the Titan guard and legion units.
  Three of their sons currently serve as airmen, and a fourth one is 
also a teacher in our community.
  Last December, Captain Kyle Kellett, one of their sons, was 
recognized with the Lieutenant General William H. Tunner Award as the 
commander of the most outstanding airlift crew in the United States Air 
Force. As civil war was raging in Yemen, then-Secretary of Defense Ash 
Carter ordered all U.S. personnel out of the country, and that is when 
Captain Kellett and his crew put their lives on the line to protect 
their fellow Americans.
  Their no-fail mission was flown at night, over the war-torn country, 
in bad weather, and with little time for planning. Captain Kellett and 
his crew quickly evacuated 70 Americans only hours before militants 
overran their location. His leadership and crew were nothing short of 
heroic.
  This is a proud all-American family. I want to thank the Kellett 
family for their service to our country.

                          ____________________



