

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4672]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

 SENATE RESOLUTION 237--TO AUTHORIZE THE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS BY THE 
 PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND 
                   SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

  Mr. McCONNELL (for himself and Mr. Schumer) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and agreed to:
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on behalf of myself and the 
distinguished Democratic leader, Mr. Schumer, I send to the desk a 
resolution on documentary production by the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations, and ask for its immediate consideration.
  Mr. President, earlier this year the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs completed an investigation into internet sex trafficking. After 
completing that investigation, the Subcommittee referred its staff 
reports and findings to the United States Department of Justice for 
additional investigation. The Subcommittee has received a request from 
the Department seeking access to records that the Subcommittee obtained 
during the investigation.
  In keeping with the Senate's practice under its rules, this 
resolution would authorize the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of 
the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, acting jointly, to 
provide records, obtained by the Subcommittee in the course of its 
investigation, in response to this request and requests from other 
Federal or State government entities and officials with a legitimate 
need for the records.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the material of the bill 
be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the material was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                              S. Res. 237

       Whereas, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
     conducted an investigation into Internet sex trafficking;
       Whereas, the Subcommittee has received a request from a 
     federal law enforcement agency for access to records of the 
     Subcommittee's investigation;
       Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of the United 
     States and Rule XI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, no 
     evidence under the control or in the possession of the Senate 
     can, by administrative or judicial process, be taken from 
     such control or possession but by permission of the Senate;
       Whereas, when it appears that evidence under the control or 
     in the possession of the Senate is needed for the promotion 
     of justice, the Senate will take such action as will promote 
     the ends of justice consistent with the privileges of the 
     Senate: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of 
     the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, acting 
     jointly, are authorized to provide to law enforcement 
     officials, regulatory agencies, and other entities or 
     individuals duly authorized by federal or state governments, 
     records of the Subcommittee's investigation into Internet sex 
     trafficking.

                          ____________________



