

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6222]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TRUMP ADMINISTRATION SABOTAGING ACA

  (Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, recently, we learned the Trump 
administration has diverted taxpayer funds allocated for the enrollment 
in the Affordable Care Act activities to create social media videos and 
content claiming that the Affordable Care Act is failing, a deliberate 
act of sabotage. Instead of making sure Americans remain healthy and 
improve the risk pool, the HHS is peddling online propaganda to 
discourage enrollment and health insurance.
  According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the ACA markets are 
stabilized, and there is simply no evidence of death spirals or 
collapsing markets. According to reliable polls, over 50 percent of the 
American people are in support of the Affordable Care Act. That is real 
news.
  The President has repeatedly declared that he would let the ACA fail 
just to score political points. It is unbelievable that a sitting 
President would wish catastrophic harm on his own people, but, 
unfortunately, that is what is happening.
  Colleagues, the ACA is not failing on its own. It is being actively 
sabotaged by the President and our Republican Congress. The 
administration has repeatedly wavered in its responsibility to 
administer cost-sharing reduction payments, relaxed enforcement of the 
insurance mandate, and refused to help State governments shore up their 
own healthcare exchanges.
  The majority and the Trump administration should quit playing 
politics with our healthcare system.

                          ____________________



