

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2727-S2728]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 210. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 244, to 
encourage effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and 
retain men and women who have served in the United States military with 
annual Federal awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This Act shall take effect 1 day after the date of 
     enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 211. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 210 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 244, to encourage effective, 
voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who 
have served in the United States military with annual Federal awards to 
employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 212. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 244, to 
encourage effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and 
retain men and women who have served in the United States military with 
annual Federal awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       At the end add the following:
       ``This act shall be effective 3 days after enactment.''
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 213. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 212 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the bill H.R. 244, to encourage effective, 
voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who 
have served in the United States military with annual Federal awards to 
employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``3 days'' and insert ``4 days''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 214. Mr. McCONNELL proposed an amendment to amendment SA 213 
proposed by Mr. McConnell to the amendment SA 212 proposed by Mr. 
McConnell to the bill H.R. 244, to encourage effective, voluntary 
investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who have 
served in the United States military with annual Federal awards to 
employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes; as follows:

       Strike ``4'' and insert ``5''.
                                 ______
                                 
  SA 215. Mr. HELLER submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 244, to encourage effective, voluntary investments 
to recruit, employ, and retain men and women who have served in the 
United States military with annual Federal awards to employers 
recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

                      TITLE __--NO BUDGET, NO PAY

     SEC. _01. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``No Budget, No Pay Act''.

     SEC. _02. DEFINITION.

       In this title, the term ``Member of Congress''--
       (1) has the meaning given under section 2106 of title 5, 
     United States Code; and
       (2) does not include the Vice President.

     SEC. _03. TIMELY APPROVAL OF CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE 
                   BUDGET AND THE APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

       If both Houses of Congress have not approved a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget as described under section 301 of 
     the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 
     (2 U.S.C. 632) for a fiscal year before October 1 of that 
     fiscal year and have not passed all the regular 
     appropriations bills for the next fiscal year before October 
     1 of that fiscal year, the pay of each Member of Congress may 
     not be paid for each day following that October 1 until the 
     date on which both Houses of Congress approve a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for that fiscal year and all the 
     regular appropriations bills.

     SEC. _04. NO PAY WITHOUT CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET 
                   AND THE APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, no funds may be appropriated or otherwise be made 
     available from the United States Treasury for the pay of any 
     Member of Congress during any period determined by the 
     Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the Senate or the Chairpersons of the 
     Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives under section __05.
       (b) No Retroactive Pay.--A Member of Congress may not 
     receive pay for any period determined by the Chairpersons of 
     the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate or the Chairpersons of the 
     Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives under section __05, at any 
     time after the end of that period.

     SEC. _05. DETERMINATIONS.

       (a) Senate.--
       (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
     the Secretary of the Senate shall submit a request to the 
     Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the Senate for certification of 
     determinations made under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (2).
       (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
     the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
     shall--
       (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination of 
     whether Congress is in compliance with section __03 and 
     whether Senators may not be paid under that section;
       (B) determine the period of days following each October 1 
     that Senators may not be paid under section __03; and
       (C) provide timely certification of the determinations 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the request of the 
     Secretary of the Senate.
       (b) House of Representatives.--
       (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
     the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives shall submit a request to the Chairpersons of 
     the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives for 
     certification of determinations made under subparagraphs (A) 
     and (B) of paragraph (2).
       (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
     the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives shall--
       (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination of 
     whether Congress is in compliance with section __03 and 
     whether Members of the House of Representatives may not be 
     paid under that section;
       (B) determine the period of days following each October 1 
     that Members of the House of Representatives may not be paid 
     under section __03; and
       (C) provide timely certification of the determinations 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the request of the Chief 
     Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

     SEC. _06. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       This title shall take effect on February 1, 2019.

[[Page S2728]]

  

                          ____________________



