

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3009]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  WELCOMING REVEREND RIC METZGAR, SR.

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. 
Ruppersberger) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to introduce and welcome 
to Washington, Maryland State Delegate Ric Metzgar, a friend for a long 
time, Second District resident, who has been representing eastern 
Baltimore County in the Maryland General Assembly since 2015. He has 
been serving his community far longer.
  Delegate Metzgar has lived in Essex for most of his life, graduating 
from Kenwood High School before attending Northwest Bible College. His 
father worked for the Glenn L. Martin airplane community, and his 
mother owned a drycleaning business.
  Delegate Metzgar managed a local car dealership and a diner, and, as 
an ordained minister, he has served as a ministry leader and Sunday 
school director for several local churches. He founded Gateway Pastors 
and Churches Association.
  In Annapolis, Delegate Metzgar serves on the Health and Government 
Operations Committee as well as the Maryland Veterans Caucus. His 
volunteer efforts within his community are unending.
  Delegate Metzgar has long served as chair of the Essex Christmas 
parade and co-chair of the massive Essex Day Festival. He is a member 
of the board of directors for the Heritage Society of Essex and Middle 
River.
  Delegate Metzgar is married with two children and two grandchildren. 
I am honored to call Delegate Metzgar a friend and constituent of the 
Second Congressional District of Maryland, and I offer sincere thanks 
on behalf of this entire body for his delivery of today's opening 
player.

                          ____________________



