

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5442-H5443]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           CONGRATULATING CHIEF BILL OLNEY ON HIS RETIREMENT

  (Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my neighbor 
and friend, Chief Bill Olney, on his retirement from the Zeeland Police 
Department, and to thank him for his work and his service.

[[Page H5443]]

  After attending both Grand Valley State University and Wayne State 
University, Bill received a degree in criminal justice from Madonna 
University. He began his career in law enforcement in 1976 as a 
Michigan State Police trooper, where he served for 25 years protecting 
our great State.
  In 2001, just one day after he retired from the Michigan State 
Police, Bill Olney joined the Zeeland Police Department, where he 
served as our chief of police for 16 years.
  Chief Olney has dedicated his career to providing the highest quality 
law enforcement service and professionalism to the residents of 
Zeeland. His relentless work for our committee and dedication is 
clearly reflected by the numerous awards and commendations he has 
received over his career.
  Chief Olney has served on the West Michigan Criminal Justice Training 
Consortium, Ottawa Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition, and Stop Child 
Abuse and Neglect Council.
  As a lifelong Detroit Lions and Michigan State Spartans fan, I know 
he will enjoy his retirement with his wife, Kathryn; and his children, 
Shannon and Matt.
  I think some football is in his kids' future.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to ask my colleagues to join me in saying ``thank 
you'' on behalf of the Second District of Michigan as we thank Chief 
Bill Olney for his 41 years of service to the State of Michigan and to 
our country.

                          ____________________



