

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6470]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 A TRIBUTE IN MEMORY OF PAMELA TODD MAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Rogers) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
the memory of a dear friend and advocate for eastern Kentuckians, 
Pamela Todd May.
  Although her life tragically ended too soon, she lived with endless 
compassion for those in need, and abounding devotion to our region, the 
Pikeville Medical Center, the University of Kentucky, her husband, 
Walter May, her children, and all her family and friends.
  Pam May lived with consummate elegance, always joyous in service, and 
loyal in deed. She faithfully dedicated more than three decades of 
service to the Pikeville Medical Center as a steadfast advocate for 
expanded access to quality healthcare in Kentucky's rural Appalachian 
region.
  As founder of one of the most respected law firms in Kentucky, Pam 
was as trustworthy defender for the people of eastern Kentucky and a 
voice for those who otherwise may not be heard.
  One of the most recent examples of her endless and selfless service 
was her prompt action to help hundreds of individuals obtain medical 
records for Social Security hearings and honorable representation in 
the wake of emergency redetermination hearings by the Social Security 
Administration. She partnered with local attorneys and orchestrated 
hope for hundreds of families desperate for assistance while navigating 
through Federal hearings. Pam was a thoughtful leader you could rely on 
to stay steps ahead of everyone else.
  My wife, Cynthia, and I mourn the loss of our treasured friend, yet 
we rejoice in the legacy of justice and compassion that she leaves 
behind.
  Those of us who were blessed to know Pam must carry on her banner of 
hope and love for the people of our region. Mr. Speaker, eastern 
Kentucky is a better place because Pam May lived. If we could replicate 
her passion and drive, our future would undoubtedly be much brighter in 
the hills of Appalachia.
  Mr. Speaker, Cynthia and I extend our deepest heartfelt condolences 
to our friend and confidant, Walter May, as well as Pam's mother, 
children, and extended family and friends who were honored to know and 
love her.

                          ____________________



