

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4002]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 13, 2017 at 
10 a.m., in 328A Russell Senate Office Building, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Opportunities in Global and Local Markets, Specialty 
Crops, and Organics: Perspectives for the 2018 Farm Bill.''


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, July 13, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session, to receive testimony on the attempted coup in Montenegro and 
malign Russian influence in Europe.


            committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs

  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 13, 2017 at 
9:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, ``The Semiannual Monetary 
Policy Report to the Congress.''


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Thursday, July 13, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to consider the nomination of Kevin K. 
McAleenan, of Hawaii, to be Commissioner of United States Customs and 
Border Protection Department of Homeland Security.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, July 13, 2017 at 9:30 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Review of the 2017 Trafficking in Persons 
Report.''


          committee on health, education, labor, and pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Nomination Hearing for Deputy Secretary of Labor and 
Members of the National Labor Relations Board'' on Thursday, July 13, 
2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on July 13, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in SD-226 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting.


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Thursday, July 13, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed hearing.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 
13, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.
  The Committee will hold a Subcommittee Hearing on ``Reopening the 
American Frontier: Promoting Partnerships Between Commercial Space and 
the U.S. Government to Advance Exploration and Settlement.''

                          ____________________



