

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2960]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             42ND ANNIVERSARY OF THE END OF THE VIETNAM WAR

  (Mr. LaMALFA asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, this Sunday, April 30, will be the 42nd 
year of the conclusion of the Vietnam war. The conflict started between 
Communist-backed North Vietnam and the U.S.-supported Government of 
South Vietnam in November 1955 and went on for another 20 years.
  While the motives and justification of the war were seen as 
controversial to many, what needs to be recognized is the service 
demonstrated by our brave men and women who risked their lives to do 
their duty asked of them. Many of them made the ultimate sacrifice. For 
that sacrifice, our Nation is eternally grateful.
  Of the nearly 3 million Americans who served in Vietnam, 58,220 laid 
down their lives in that service. We can find their names forever 
enshrined right down the road here in Washington, D.C., at the Vietnam 
Veterans Memorial Wall.
  Oftentimes, those who did return were not treated well or properly 
welcomed home for having served in a war they did not create or ask 
for. Finally, and thankfully, that welcoming has improved for our 
Vietnam veterans in recent years as we honor their service. Much still 
needs to be done in regard to the effects of Agent Orange and other 
health issues.
  Of the 75 living Medal of Honor recipients, 52 earned their medal in 
Vietnam. In total, there were a staggering 260 soldiers awarded the 
Medal of Honor for heroic acts in the Vietnam war.
  As we commemorate the 42nd year of the fall of Saigon and the 
dissatisfactory ending of the war in Vietnam this Sunday, we must be 
thankful for the millions who served in what seemed a thankless role 
then, who risked their lives in battle for freedom, and for the many 
still missing or those who did not make it back alive.

                          ____________________



