

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3459]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5 (a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 13, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in open 
session.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 13, 2017, at 10 a.m., 
in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``Hearing on the Nominations of Kristine Svinicki 
(Reappointment), Annie Caputo and David Wright to be Members of the 
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Nominations of Susan Bodine 
to be Assistant Administrator of the Office of Enforcement and 
Compliance Assurance of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 13, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold a 
hearing entitled ``Review of the FY 2018 State Department Budget 
Request.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet, during the session of the Senate, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``The Cost of Prescription Drugs: How the Drug 
Delivery System Affects What Patients Pay'' on Tuesday, June 13, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 13, 2017, in room SD-628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a legislative 
hearing.


                      Committee on Indian Affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 13, 2017, in room 628 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a business 
meeting.


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
June 13, 2017 from 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m., in room SH-216 of the Senate 
Hart Office Building to hold an open hearing entitled ``Open Hearing 
with Attorney General Jeff Sessions.''


                        Subcommittee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 
13, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open session, to receive testimony on Navy 
and Marine Corps aviation programs.


                       Subcommittee on East Asia

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 
13, 2017 at 2:30 p.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``State-Sponsored 
Cyberspace Threats: Recent Incidents and U.S. Policy Response.''

                          ____________________



