

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4698]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               HEALTHCARE

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, on the topic of healthcare: I was 
very happy to hear the statement from Chairman Alexander and Ranking 
Member Murray yesterday in which they pledged the HELP Committee to the 
task of restabilizing and strengthening the markets, particularly by 
guaranteeing the cost-sharing reduction program. As Chairman Alexander 
said: ``Without the payment of these cost-sharing reductions, Americans 
will be hurt.'' That is clear. Everyone has said it, even the insurance 
industry, and yet President Trump continues to treat this critical 
program as if it is some kind of political hostage. The President 
treats the critical program as if it is some kind of hostage.
  Insurers in three States--North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Iowa--have 
each released separate rates for 2018: one if the payments are made, 
and one that is 20 percent higher if they are not. In these three 
States, premiums will be 20 percent higher if President Trump refuses 
to carry out the law. Every American will see that increase in their 
monthly bill and know it is a Trump premium tax.
  Insurers from coast to coast have said that uncertainty surrounding 
the cost-sharing reductions are the No. 1 threat to the stability of 
our markets. State insurance commissioners--many of them Republican--
are announcing higher rates for next year and directly blaming the 
President's failure to guarantee these payments, as the insurance 
commissioner of Idaho did yesterday.
  We have enough problems in the world right now without President 
Trump creating entirely new ones out of political spite and a petty 
vindictiveness. When you lose politically, you don't take it out on the 
American people. That is not Presidential; that is just small.
  So we would say to the President: Stop holding this critical program 
as if it is some kind of political hostage, stop the sabotage, make the 
payments this month so Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Murray can 
get to work in a bipartisan way on a longer stabilization package.
  Let me salute a large number of my Republican colleagues who agree we 
have to do cost sharing. They have realized that just sticking with 
President Trump--particularly when his motivations are not Presidential 
but are sort of nasty, vindictive--is a bad idea. I salute you because, 
for the good of America, we have to work together.

                          ____________________



