

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5058]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      COMMENDING ARMY SPECIALIST MICHAEL MARTENEY FOR HIS HEROISM

  (Mr. COMER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay special recognition to Army 
Specialist Michael Marteney for an incredible act of heroism. While off 
duty, Specialist Marteney displayed remarkable selflessness and courage 
in the rescue and treatment of a fatally wounded civilian.
  On May 27, 2017, a motor home traveling in Oak Grove, Kentucky, 
collided with a civilian building. With complete disregard for his own 
personal safety, Michael pulled his car over to the site of the 
accident and rushed to the scene. The front of the motor home was 
crushed, and Michael saw that the driver had life-threatening injuries 
to his head and leg.
  With gasoline still rapidly spilling from the vehicle, Michael was 
able to gain access to the passenger side of the motor home and fashion 
a makeshift tourniquet. Oak Grove Police Officer Sergeant Havens 
arrived on scene and handed Michael a combat application tourniquet, 
which he swiftly applied.
  Despite the imminence of fire or explosion, Michael went into the 
back of the motor home to locate a first-aid kit. Michael conveyed 
lifesaving information to EMS about the driver's disposition that 
prompted the call for immediate flight evacuation services.
  If Specialist Michael Marteney had not taken control of the situation 
and implemented key medical assistance, the wounded driver would not 
have survived the trauma sustained.
  I am honored to recognize Specialist Marteney's lifesaving actions, 
an inspiring illustration of the good will of others and the 
consequences of brave deeds. I thank Specialist Marteney for his 
bravery and all others in Oak Grove who were involved in the rescue.

                          ____________________



