

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3681]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

      RECOGNIZING THE LITTLE ROCK AIR FORCE BASE COMMUNITY COUNCIL

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and 
congratulate the Little Rock Air Force Base, LRAFB, Community Council 
team on their recognition as the 2017 Association of Defense 
Communities Member of the Year. This prestigious honor is indicative of 
the community council's exceptional and unwavering commitment for the 
past 62 years to the Department of Defense, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Air 
Force Reserve, and Arkansas National Guard. These organizations, along 
with the LRAFB surrounding communities, form the celebrated Team Little 
Rock.
  Since its founding in 1955, Little Rock Air Force Base has enjoyed a 
tremendous amount of support, respect, and appreciation from within the 
local community. The LRAFB Community Council, comprised of dedicated 
local civic leaders, has passionately championed the base's mission, 
while fostering partnership efforts between the military and civilian 
communities. Furthermore, as the Department of Defense and U.S. Air 
Force have faced an unprecedented 8 years of fiscal uncertainty, the 
community council has remained a steadfast leader and staunch advocate 
for the Team Little Rock mission, its airmen, and their families.
  The LRAFB Community Council long ago established an enduring 
relationship with its Arkansas congressional delegation to ensure a 
sustained awareness of base needs, successes, and challenges. This 
outstanding example of leadership demonstrates the community council's 
commitment to building a dedicated and resilient community network 
around Little Rock's sole Air Force installation.
  The level of collaboration between the community council and Team 
Little Rock is simply unprecedented. For example, Jacksonville and 
Little Rock have adopted ordinances and regulations preventing civilian 
encroachment that would impede aircraft operations, while many 
military-civilian initiatives have been formulated to offer mutual 
services, thus improving quality of life on both sides of the fence. 
Moreover, the Jacksonville fire department and emergency services team 
regularly participate in both exercises and real-world scenarios with 
their military counterparts. Finally, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson 
appointed past community council president Brad Hegeman to chair the 
Governor's military affairs committee in order to address the assets, 
economic impact, benefits, and needs of military installations and 
military-related businesses throughout Arkansas.
  Throughout my time in Congress, I have consistently witnessed the 
extraordinary and tireless support received by Team Little Rock on 
behalf of the Little Rock Air Force Base Community Council. The entire 
community council team is very deserving of this incredible honor, and 
I am thrilled to officially recognize them as the 2017 Association of 
Defense Communities Member of the Year. Congratulations, Team Little 
Rock.

                          ____________________



