

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2728]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 3, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 3, 2017, at 10 a.m. 
in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building.


                     Committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 3, 2017 at 5:10 p.m., to hold a 
business meeting.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on May 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


           subcommittee on emerging threats and Capabilities

  The Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the 
Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, May 3, 2017, at 10 a.m., in open session.


                       Subcommittee on personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
May 3, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open session.


 Subcommittee on Multilateral international development, multilateral 
  institutions, and international economic, energy, and environmental 
                                 policy

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Multilateral 
International Development, Multilateral Institutions, and International 
Economic, Energy, and Environmental Policy is authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Wednesday, May 3, 2017 at 10 a.m., to hold 
a hearing entitled ``Global Philanthropy and Remittances and 
International Development.''

                          ____________________



