

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3552-S3553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

             TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL SARAH B. GOLDMAN

 Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I would like to pay tribute to 
my constituent LTC Sarah B. Goldman for her exemplary dedication to 
duty and service to the U.S. Army and to the United States of America. 
She has served the last year as the chief of Congressional Affairs, 
Office of the Army Surgeon General. Lieutenant Colonel Goldman was born 
and raised in Nashville, TN, and received her commission as a 
lieutenant junior grade in the U.S. Navy in 1998. Lieutenant Colonel 
Goldman transferred to the U.S. Army in 2008.
  Prior to her current assignment, LTC Sarah Goldman served as a 
congressional liaison in the office of the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army, Financial Management and Comptroller, as the medical liaison for 
the Army Surgeon General.
  Lieutenant Colonel Goldman served as the Army Traumatic Brain Injury 
Program director at the Office of the Surgeon General, Rehabilitation 
and Reintegration Division, in Falls Church, VA, from 2010-2013. In 
2011, she deployed to Afghanistan as a member of the International 
Security Assistance Force Joint Command's special assistant for Health 
Affairs Health Service Support Assessment Team to review traumatic 
brain injury care in the Combined Joint Operations Area-Afghanistan.
  Lieutenant Colonel Goldman served as the Army's service 
representative to multiple Department of Defense traumatic brain injury 
working groups and, in 2010, was appointed as a member of the NATO 
Technical Team ``Mild traumatic brain injury in a Military Operational 
Setting.'' At the U.S. Army Research Institute of Environmental 
Medicine's Military Performance Division Lieutenant Colonel Goldman 
conducted research studies related to rehabilitation from traumatic 
brain injury and upper extremity neuromusculoskeletal injuries. She 
deployed to Balad, Iraq, from August 2009 to February 2010 as a senior 
scientist with the Joint Combat Casualty Research

[[Page S3553]]

Team. Her Navy assignments include assistant department head, Physical 
and Occupational Therapy Department, Naval Hospital Jacksonville, and 
division officer, Educational and Developmental Intervention Services, 
Naval Hospital Yokosuka, Japan. In 2004, the Navy selected Lieutenant 
Colonel Goldman as the ``Navy Occupational Therapist of the Year.''
  She holds a Ph.D. from Indiana University in kinesiology and is a 
graduate of Washington University in St. Louis, master's degree in 
occupational therapy and a bachelor of arts degree, with a follow-on 
fellowship at Vanderbilt University. Lieutenant Colonel Goldman has 
presented at numerous national conferences, authored peer-reviewed 
professional articles in five different scientific journals, has 
published a book chapter, and served as a reviewer for two major 
rehabilitation journals. Lieutenant Colonel Goldman was the first 
Department of Defense representative appointed to the American 
Occupational Therapy Association's research advisory panel and is a 
member of the American Hand Therapy Foundation Board.
  On behalf of a grateful nation, I join my colleagues today in 
recognizing and commending LTC Sarah Goldman for nearly two decades of 
Active service to her country. We wish Sarah and her family all the 
best as they continue their journey of service.

                          ____________________



