

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 119 (Friday, July 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 119 (Friday, July 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5836-H5868]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Bost). Pursuant to House Resolution 440 
and rule XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill, H.R. 2810.
  Will the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Simpson) kindly take the chair.

                              {time}  0906


                     In the Committee of the Whole

  Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 2018) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense and for military 
construction, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes, with Mr. Simpson (Acting Chair) in the 
chair.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole House rose on 
Thursday, July 13, 2017, a second set of amendments en bloc, offered by 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) had been disposed of.
  It is now in order to consider amendment No. 16 printed in House 
Report 115-217.


                 Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Byrne

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 17 
printed in House Report 115-217.
  Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, I rise as the designee of the gentlewoman 
from Florida, and I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of title XXXV add the following:

     SEC. __. APPLICATION OF LAW.

       Section 4301 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(d) For purposes of any Federal law except the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), any 
     vessel, including a foreign vessel, being repaired or 
     dismantled is deemed to be a recreational vessel, as defined 
     under section 2101(25), during such repair or dismantling, if 
     that vessel--
       ``(1) shares elements of design and construction of 
     traditional recreational vessels (as so defined); and
       ``(2) when operating is not normally engaged in a military, 
     commercial, or traditionally commercial undertaking.''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Byrne) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
  Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, this straightforward and bipartisan 
amendment would provide important clarity for the recreational marine 
industry as it relates to workers' compensation coverage.
  For decades, Federal law stated that individuals who build, 
dismantle, or repair recreational vessels less than 65 feet could be 
covered under State workers' compensation law instead of the Federal 
Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
  Under the Democrat-controlled Congress in 2009, the law was 
simplified by eliminating the size limitation, which allowed more 
employers to purchase State workers' compensation.
  Unfortunately, in 2011, the Department of Labor issued a burdensome 
and confusing rule creating a new definition of recreational vessel. 
This change contradicted legislation passed by the Congress in 2009, 
and effectively denied recreational vessel repair workers access to 
more affordable State workers' compensation insurance.
  This regulatory confusion and uncertainty is reducing access to 
affordable workers' compensation policies and also hurting the overall 
recreational repair industry.
  Our bipartisan amendment increases strong protections to ensure that 
no vessel used for commercial or military purposes is inappropriately 
excepted from the Federal requirements.
  This amendment would provide regulatory relief for small businesses, 
including those in coastal Alabama, while also ensuring the maritime 
workers receive the protections they need.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Connecticut is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment 
that is offered by my good friend from Alabama (Mr. Byrne).
  I would just note that this is an amendment that has been around the 
last couple Congresses, and the intent clearly is to carve out a larger 
exemption from the longshoremen's act which is a law that goes back to 
1927.
  I would note that if that is the intent, the language of this 
amendment actually is kind of like legislating with a chainsaw instead 
of a scalpel because by carving out a larger exemption for recreational 
vessels above or beyond 55 feet long, basically there is a whole series 
of Coast Guard rules and regulations that have been enforced by the 
Coast Guard for many years that this amendment, unfortunately, is going 
to sweep up and undermine, including the rules related to alcohol on 
board vessels, waste management, Coast Guard inspection categories, 
vessel sales to non-U.S. citizens, tonnage taxes, and safety management 
systems.
  The Coast Guard is out there every single day making sure that these 
rules which really protect our ports and make sure that particularly 
foreign, large, super yachts are paying their fair share, in terms of 
the costs of environmental protection, and boating safety is enforced. 
That is, again, what this amendment will undermine.
  That is why last year the Coast Guard issued a statement pointing out 
the fact that because of the broad sweep of the language of this 
amendment, it is really undermining some key missions that the Coast 
Guard has been doing for decades for the American people.
  So I would note that, at the outset, obviously there is, I think, 
another

[[Page H5837]]

issue which is just as significant which is undermining the 
longshoremen's act which goes back to Calvin Coolidge. It recognizes 
the fact that the folks who are engaged in longshoremen activity but 
also shipyard construction are engaged in a very high-risk type of 
occupation.
  The longshoremen's act was a recognition that State workers' 
compensation systems, because of the fact that they varied up and down 
in terms of protections, really required a Federal minimum standard. 
That is really something that has obviously withstood the test of time 
over the last 90 years.
  Again, if you look at the data, people who were involved in shipyard 
work, their risk of injury is much higher than many other occupations.
  I am a proud Representative from a district that has the second 
largest employment level in shipbuilding according to the American 
Shipbuilding Association, and these folks are dealing with processes, 
equipment, and parts that, again, really are much higher risk than even 
aerospace or other forms of manufacturing.
  Mr. Chairman, I think what we ought to do is stick to the Coast Guard 
definition of what a recreational vessel is because that has been on 
the books for many years, and it is something that I think all of us 
should listen closely to in terms of evaluating this amendment.
  I think also we should recognize that we can build a great American 
shipbuilding sector in this country for commercial and recreational 
vessels, but we should not do it on the backs of worker protection.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the gentleman. He and I have 
worked together on shipbuilding issues a lot of times, and I appreciate 
his leadership in that industry.
  These are recreational vessel companies. They are small companies 
doing small things on different types of vessels than the ones that Mr. 
Courtney and I are typically working together on. So trying to apply 
the same rules when it is a completely different activity to where, 
when we are usually talking about very large ships, it just doesn't 
make any sense.
  This has traditionally been a Democrat amendment. I have always 
supported it. I am happy to be here to support it today. I would like 
for us to continue our tradition of bipartisanship on this issue.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Scott) who is a colleague from another great 
shipbuilding district and also the ranking member of the Education and 
the Workforce Committee.

  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this 
amendment.
  The amendment shifts workers who repair super yachts and large, 
luxury watercraft out of coverage under the Longshore and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act and into coverage under State workers' 
compensation programs.
  But it doesn't just amend the longshoremen act. Rather, it creates a 
problem with the Coast Guard law. The Coast Guard opposed an identical 
amendment last year because it creates widespread damage to Coast Guard 
regulatory and enforcement authorities, implicates U.S. treaty 
obligations, and could affect the collection of tonnage taxes on 
foreign flagged vessels.
  The Department of Labor also opposes the amendment because it could 
lead to uncertainty and foster litigation under the longshoremen 
coverage. Moreover, by shifting workers out of longshoremen into the 
weak State workers' comp laws such as Florida, it could permanently 
impoverish workers.
  Last year, the Florida Supreme Court held that the Florida workers' 
compensation law was so anemic that it was unconstitutional.
  If the goal is to provide reasonable insurance rates, then it should 
be in the insurance industry not by complicating the Coast Guard, by 
complicating the Department of Labor, and denying workers their 
benefits under the Longshoremen's Compensation Act.
  Mr. Chairman, I include in the Record a letter from the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce opposing this amendment.

         Committee on Education and the Workforce, House of 
           Representatives,
                                    Washington, DC, July 12, 2017.
     Re Opposition to Making Amendment 302 in Order as part of the 
         National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2018 (H.R. 
         2810)

     Hon. Pete Sessions,
     Chairman, Committee on Rules,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
     Hon. Louise McIntosh Slaughter,
     Ranking Member, Committee on Rules,
     House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Sessions and Ranking Member Slaughter: I am 
     writing to request that you not make Amendment 302 in order 
     as part of the rule for the FY 2018 National Defense 
     Authorization Act (H.R. 2810).
       The amendment offered by Representatives Frankel and Byrne 
     changes the definition of a ``recreational'' vessel under 
     U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) boating safety authorizing 
     legislation. The amendment authors' goal is to change 
     workers' compensation coverage for those repairing luxury 
     water craft and superyachts by shifting coverage for these 
     workers from the Longshore and Harbor Workers Compensation 
     Act (LHWCA) into state workers' compensation programs.
       However, the amendment does not amend the LHWCA. Rather it 
     changes the definition of ``recreational vessel'' under 
     Section 4301 of Title 46 (the Federal Boat Safety Act of 
     1971). According to the Coast Guard, this approach to 
     amending the LHWCA will have adverse collateral impacts on 
     Coast Guard regulatory and enforcement authorities, implicate 
     U.S. treaty obligations, and affect collection of tonnage 
     taxes on foreign flagged vessels. The USCG statement, 
     attached to this letter, notes that this provision could:
       Exclude vessels now covered under the U.S. implementing 
     legislation for the International Convention on the Control 
     of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships, and reduce 
     available civil monetary penalties to deter violations;
       Allow a foreign vessel owner to exempt itself from tonnage 
     taxes by declaring its vessel to be under repair; and,
       Allow foreign flagged vessels to avoid requirements for 
     safety management systems under the International Safety 
     Management Code.
       The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) objected to this 
     provision in the last Congress, as it would ``lead to 
     uncertainty and foster litigation regarding Longshore Act 
     coverage'' because the definition of ``recreational'' vessel 
     introduces subjective criteria.
       This identical amendment was included in the House National 
     Defense Authorization Act for FY 2017 as Section 3512, but 
     was removed in the House-Senate conference following the 
     numerous objections raised by the U.S. Coast Guard and the 
     U.S. Department of Labor.
       None of these concerns have been considered in hearings 
     within the respective committees of jurisdiction for USCG or 
     DOL, and deserve careful consideration before being brought 
     to a vote.
       I thank you for your consideration of this request.
           Sincerely,
                                            Robert C. Bobby Scott,
                                                   Ranking Member.
       Encl: U.S. Coast Guard Views on Amendment to the National 
     Defense Authorization Act (this set of views applied to the 
     identical language included in Amendment 302 that was adopted 
     in Section 3512 the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization 
     Act).

     Coast Guard Views on Sec. 3512 of H.R. 4909, the NDAA for FY17

       The Coast Guard would oppose the previously referenced 
     amendment to 46 U.S.C. Sec. 4301. As a general matter, it 
     seems like this proposed amendment is out of place. Sec. 803 
     of the American Investment and Recovery Act amended sec. 
     2(3)(F) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act 
     (33 U.S.C. Sec. 902(3)(F)), a statutory regime squarely 
     within the purview of the Department of Labor (DOL). Indeed, 
     in 2011, it was DOL--not the Coast Guard--that promulgated 
     the rule in question that, according to industry background 
     documentation, would appear to be the root cause of this 
     issue. Thus, any changes to address this issue should be more 
     properly directed either to the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
     Compensation Act or to DOL and its implementing regulations.
       Aside from the amendment's misplaced statutory location, 
     the proposed amendment contains numerous drafting issues. For 
     example, the proposed amendment contains no limitation of the 
     ``dismantling'' language to those activities ``in connection 
     with the repair of such vessel.'' Irrespective of the 
     drafting issues, the proposed amendment would not provide any 
     immediate relief as the draft language contains terms 
     undefined by statute that prevent it from being self-
     executing. Finally, if adopted, the amendment would likely 
     create a wholly unnecessary bifurcated regulatory scheme 
     between the DOL regulations under 20 C.F.R. 
     Sec. Sec. 701.501-701.505 and additional regulations 
     promulgated by the Coast Guard.
       The proposed change to the definition of a ``recreational 
     vessel'' to include ``any vessel, including a foreign vessel, 
     being repaired or dismantled [. . .] during such repair or 
     dismantling if the vessel (1) shares elements of

[[Page H5838]]

     design and construction of traditional recreational vessels 
     (as so defined); and (2) when operating is not normally 
     engaged in a military, commercial, or traditionally 
     commercial undertaking'' has significant impacts on Coast 
     Guard regulatory and enforcement authorities.
       The change in the definition would expand the current 
     exclusion for ``recreational vessels'' from the U.S. 
     implementing legislation for the International Convention on 
     the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships. 
     Specifically, civil penalties for owners of ``recreational 
     vessels'' are statutorily limited to $5,000 as compared to 
     the $37,500 maximum penalty for all other vessel owners.
       The change in the definition could be construed to allow a 
     foreign vessel owner to exempt itself from tonnage taxes 
     required under 46 U.S.C. Sec. 60301, by claiming that its 
     vessel is ``being repaired'' and thereby a recreational 
     vessel exempted from tonnage taxes.
       The change in the definition could also be construed to 
     allow foreign flagged vessels to avoid the requirements to 
     maintain a safety management system onboard under 46 U.S.C. 
     Sec. 3201, et seq. by claiming that its vessel is ``being 
     repaired'' and thereby a recreational vessel exempted from 
     Safety Management Requirements under the International Safety 
     Management Code.
       In addition to these statutory impacts, there are numerous 
     Coast Guard regulations not related to Longshoreman and 
     Harbor Workers' Compensation Act authorities that would be 
     impacted by the change. These include:
       33 C.F.R. Sec. 95.001
       33 C.F.R. Sec. 151.51
       46 C.F.R. Sec. 2.01-7
       46 C.F.R. Sec. 4.03-50
       46 C.F.R. Sec. 67.11
       46 C.F.R. Sec. 136.105
       This list is by no means exhaustive. Given the time for 
     review, the Coast Guard has not been able to conduct a 
     comprehensive review of statutory and regulatory impacts that 
     would be implicated by this change. Furthermore, as drafted, 
     this change would require the Coast Guard to reallocate a 
     substantial amount of financial and personnel resources to 
     ensure that its regulations were in alignment with the 
     revised definition. Such an undertaking is wholly 
     incompatible with the current fiscal climate.

  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote on this 
amendment.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

                              {time}  0915

  Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, we have heard nothing from the Coast Guard 
this year in opposition to this amendment. In years past, I think the 
gentleman is correct, we have heard from them, but this year we have 
heard no opposition. In fact, a recreational vessel being repaired is 
the same as a recreational vessel being manufactured to use as a public 
vessel and should be treated the same in law.
  The Coast Guard already strictly enforces the existing laws and 
regulations that determine whether a vessel is recreational and 
enforces the law against those who would unlawfully use recreational 
vessels for commercial purposes. So I would suggest to the gentleman 
that this is not something the Coast Guard opposes.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Byrne).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama will 
be postponed.


                 Amendment No. 18 Offered by Mr. Hunter

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 18 
printed in House Report 115-217.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of title XXXV add the following:

     SEC. __. RECOURSE FOR NON-U.S. SEAMEN.

       Section 57103 of title 46, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(g) Restriction.--(1) Notwithstanding section 30104, a 
     claim for damages or expenses relating to personal injury, 
     illness, or death of a seaman who is a citizen of a foreign 
     nation, arising during or from the engagement of the seaman 
     by or for a passenger vessel duly registered under the laws 
     of a foreign nation or a vessel identified as obsolete under 
     subsection (a) or acquired under chapter 563, may not be 
     brought under the laws of the United States if--
       ``(A) such seaman was not a legal permanent resident of the 
     United States at the time the claim arose;
       ``(B) the injury, illness, or death arose outside the 
     territorial waters of the United States; and
       ``(C) the seaman or the seaman's personal representative 
     has or had a right to seek compensation for the injury, 
     illness, or death in, or under the laws of--
       ``(i) the nation in which the vessel was registered at the 
     time the claim arose; or
       ``(ii) the nation in which the seaman maintained 
     citizenship or residency at the time the claim arose.
       ``(2) Compensation defined.--As used in paragraph (1), the 
     term `compensation' means--
       ``(A) a statutory workers' compensation remedy that 
     complies with Standard A4.2 of Regulation 4.2 of the Maritime 
     Labour Convention, 2006; or
       ``(B) in the absence of the remedy described in paragraph 
     (1), a legal remedy that complies with Standard A4.2 of 
     Regulation 4.2 of the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, that 
     permits recovery for lost wages, pain and suffering, and 
     future medical expenses.''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Hunter) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, this important amendment would help 
safeguard U.S. courts against crowding of court dockets by foreign 
maritime crewmembers. It simply clarifies where the claim must be 
brought when the case has no meaningful connection to the United 
States.
  Specifically, the amendment limits the ability of foreign crewmembers 
working on foreign ships in foreign waters to sue in U.S. courts when a 
remedy is available in their home countries or the country of the ship 
on which they served. If no such remedy is available abroad, the 
amendment would allow those crewmembers to file suit in the United 
States, assuming they could meet the same burden needed to file any 
other suit.
  To be clear, again, this amendment in no way restricts a foreign 
crewmember's access to judicial relief if they are injured or suffer 
some other damage as a result of working on a foreign vessel. It simply 
says that they need to seek relief in their home country or the home 
country of the vessel on which they served before seeking relief in 
U.S. courts.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from New York is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this pernicious 
antilabor amendment that would do nothing but make it easier for U.S.-
owned but foreign-flagged cruise ship operators to exploit and abuse 
the seafarers they employ.
  The right for seafarers to seek maintenance and cure for injuries, 
illness, and damages at sea has been a part of U.S. maritime law for as 
long as U.S. ships have flown the flag on the high seas.
  The effect of this amendment is clear: it would restrict foreign 
seafarers employed on foreign-flagged cruise ships from filing claims 
for damages or expenses related to personal injury, illness, or even 
death, in a U.S. court.
  This provision is completely contrary to a general maritime law 
principle that has been around since at least the 12th century, a 
principle that has remained applicable because of the international 
nature of shipping and the plain fact that, even today, ship operators 
maintain considerable leverage over individual seafarers.
  This provision also violates an international convention that the 
U.S. has ratified. Under the Shipowners' Liability Convention, national 
laws or regulations have to be interpreted and enforced to ensure 
equality of treatment to all seafarers, irrespective of nationality, 
domicile, or race. This amendment would shred that international 
obligation.
  It is also contrary to the principles and terms defining seafarers' 
rights under the International Maritime Labor Convention.
  It is also worth mentioning that the amendment before us may be 
unnecessary because, in many cases, seafarer contracts contain binding 
arbitration clauses.
  In any event, it makes no sense to deny access to U.S. courts for 
foreign

[[Page H5839]]

seafarers seeking compassion for maintenance and cure claims. The 
cruise lines can easily avoid frivolous lawsuits. All they need do is 
honor their longstanding customary responsibility to pay for the care 
and recovery of the seafarers they employ when they are ill or injured.
  In closing, no one has provided any evidence--much less, compelling 
evidence--to justify the reversal of longstanding seafarer protections. 
In the absence of evidence, the House should reject this unwarranted 
amendment.
  This vote is purely to injure seafarers, purely to disobey maritime 
conventions to which we are a party, purely to disobey laws of the sea 
from the 12th century that we have obeyed since we obtained our 
independence from England, for no purpose other than to help often 
American-owned--not always--but foreign-flagged cruise ship lines.
  There is no purpose for this amendment. The House should reject this 
amendment as it has in the past.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Wilson).
  Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Chairman, today, I join with my colleague 
and friend, Representative Duncan Hunter, in offering an amendment to 
the maritime administration title in the NDAA.
  The cruise industry, which is a vital source of economic opportunity 
for my constituents, has come to me with concerns about lawsuits it 
says are clogging U.S. courts and making it more difficult to conduct 
business and create opportunities in my district and elsewhere.
  I take these concerns seriously and want to help address them, but I 
also want to make sure that they are protecting workers and that we 
don't shut off opportunities for them to be fairly compensated if they 
become ill or injured in the course of their employment.
  The Hunter-Wilson amendment is intended to do just that. It 
safeguards U.S. courts against further crowding of court dockets, while 
not denying foreign crewmembers remedies.
  This provision has been passed in the House five times in the past 3 
years, and most recently, the Senate Commerce Committee included it in 
the maritime administration title of the Defense Authorization bill for 
FY 2017.
  I want to thank Chairman Hunter and Chairman Shuster for their work 
on this amendment.
  I urge my colleagues to support the Hunter-Wilson amendment.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Washington (Mr. Smith).
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I simply associate myself with 
the remarks of Mr. Nadler. I think he explained the history of this law 
very, very well.
  It is a very basic principle. People who work on these cruise ships 
should be compensated and taken care of if they are injured. There is 
no reason that the cruise line industry cannot afford to do this.
  To discriminate against people who happen to be from different 
countries who are working on these ships makes no sense whatsoever. Our 
laws apply to whoever is working on the ships and should continue to do 
so. This is simply an effort to deny workers' rights from a cruise line 
industry that can more than afford to take care of the people who work 
there.
  These are not easy jobs. I confess, I have only taken one cruise in 
my life, but the people who work there work very long hours, very hard, 
in very difficult conditions. If they are injured or sick, they should 
be taken care of. As Mr. Nadler said, the best way to do that is under 
the current common practice, which is the cruise line does take care of 
them and makes sure they get the healthcare they need until they are 
able to work. But if that is not done, the right to sue in court to 
protect your rights as a worker should not be taken away.
  I do not believe that we have a problem in this country that workers 
are being too highly compensated and have too many rights. We don't 
need to take away the few that they have.
  I urge opposition to this amendment.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have remaining?
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California has 2\3/4\ minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  This amendment limits the ability of foreign crewmembers working on 
foreign ships in foreign waters to sue in U.S. courts when a remedy is 
available in their home country or the country of the ship on which 
they serve. That is it.
  They can still sue. Trial lawyers around the world can rejoice 
because these crewmembers can come back to their home countries and 
they can sue and sue and sue. They just can't do it in the U.S. if it 
didn't happen in U.S. waters. It is that simple.
  Again, a foreign mariner operating on a foreign ship in foreign or 
international waters should avail themselves of the courts in their 
home country or the vessel's home country before using U.S. courts. 
That is it.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, it sounds nice to say they can go home to their country 
from which they came, where presumably the foreign-flagged ship 
operates, but that is not the case. These are often American-owned 
ships or European-owned ships, and they are flagged in a country of 
convenience--Liberia, Panama, or wherever--where the worker may have no 
connection whatsoever, where the ship, for that matter, has no real 
connection other than flying the flag of convenience, and where there 
may not be a very decent court system.
  That is why the practice has been, since before our independence--it 
has worked well the entire history of our country--that a foreign 
citizen working on a ship that calls in the United States, if denied 
the maintenance and cure that the ship is supposed to take care of 
someone on the high seas, then they can sue in an American court. We 
have always done this. There has been no showing of hardship 
whatsoever.
  Yes, some rich cruise line operators would like, perhaps, to get rid 
of this obligation, but that is no excuse. This is an antilabor, an 
antihuman amendment. It ought to be defeated.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge its defeat, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Hunter).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
will be postponed.


                Amendment No. 43 Offered by Mr. McGovern

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 43 
printed in House Report 115-217.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of subtitle F of title V, add the following:

     SEC. 564. ATOMIC VETERANS SERVICE MEDAL.

       (a) Service Medal Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     design and produce a military service medal, to be known as 
     the ``Atomic Veterans Service Medal'', to honor retired and 
     former members of the Armed Forces who are radiation-exposed 
     veterans (as such term is defined in section 1112(c)(3) of 
     title 38, United States Code).
       (b) Distribution of Medal.--
       (1) Issuance to retired and former members.--At the request 
     of a radiation-exposed veteran, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall issue the Atomic Veterans Service Medal to the veteran.
       (2) Issuance to next-of-kin.--In the case of a radiation-
     exposed veteran who is deceased, the Secretary may provide 
     for issuance of the Atomic Veterans Service Medal to the 
     next-of-kin of the person.
       (3) Application.--The Secretary shall prepare and 
     disseminate as appropriate an application by which radiation-
     exposed veterans and their next-of-kin may apply to receive 
     the Atomic Veterans Service Medal.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) and a Member opposed each will 
control 5 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Massachusetts.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the McGovern-

[[Page H5840]]

Emmer amendment, which would simply create a service medal to be 
awarded to atomic veterans or their surviving family members in honor 
of their service and sacrifice to our Nation.
  Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces 
participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. Now known as atomic 
veterans, these GIs were placed in extremely dangerous areas and were 
constantly exposed to potentially dangerous levels of radiation in the 
performance of their duties. They were sworn to secrecy, unable to even 
talk to their doctors about their past exposure to radiation.
  Thankfully, Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush recognized 
the atomic veterans' value and service and acted to provide specialized 
care and compensation for their harrowing duty.
  In 2007, our allies, Great Britain, New Zealand, and Australia, 
enacted their versions of this amendment by authorizing a medal to 
honor their atomic veterans who served with the United States.
  Regrettably, the Pentagon remains silent on honoring the service of 
our atomic veterans, arguing that to do so would diminish the service 
of other military personnel who are tasked with dangerous missions. Mr. 
Chairman, this is a pitiful excuse.
  Tragically, more than 75 percent of atomic veterans have already 
passed away, never having received this recognition. They served 
honorably and kept a code of silence. Because of that, it most 
certainly led to many of these veterans passing away prematurely.
  Past administrations and Congresses have dealt with the thornier 
issues of legality in compensation. What remains is recognizing these 
veterans' duty, honor, and faithful service to our Nation. Time is 
running out. That is what this amendment seeks to do.
  I call upon my House colleagues to support this amendment that I, 
along with my colleague from Minnesota (Mr. Emmer), have introduced. We 
owe it to our veterans to recognize their selfless service to our 
Nation.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
Emmer).
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts (Mr. 
McGovern) for yielding. I appreciate the opportunity to work with him 
on this issue.
  During my time in Congress, I have been privileged to meet with many 
of our Nation's veterans. The men and women in our Armed Forces are 
true heroes and truly the best our Nation has to offer. Yet far too 
often, they do not get the recognition and credit they deserve. This is 
especially true when it comes to our Nation's atomic veterans.
  From 1945 to 1962, nearly a quarter of a million of our 
servicemembers played a role in the testing of nuclear weapons, earning 
them the title, ``atomic veterans.''

                              {time}  0930

  Since 1990, our Federal Government has taken different approaches to 
try and recognize and thank our atomic veterans, but we have never 
given official recognition through an award or medal. Today, that will 
change with the support of the men and women in this Chamber.
  With the McGovern-Emmer amendment, we have an opportunity to finally 
acknowledge the incredible sacrifice these courageous individuals made 
more than half a century ago. Our amendment will require the Department 
of Defense to issue a service medal to the veterans or surviving 
families of those members of our Armed Forces who participated in 
aboveground nuclear weapons testing, were part of the U.S. military 
occupation forces in or around Hiroshima and Nagasaki before 1946, or 
were held as POWs in or near Hiroshima or Nagasaki.
  This amendment has been included in the House NDAA bill for the past 
2 years and is supported by the National Association of Atomic 
Veterans. These veterans left their homes, left their families, and put 
their lives on the line to protect the freedoms and liberties we enjoy 
each and every day.
  I am honored to work with Mr. McGovern and our colleagues here in the 
House to ensure these brave soldiers get the recognition they deserve.
  Again, I want to thank Congressman McGovern for his efforts on this 
issue as well as to thank Chairman Thornberry, Ranking Member Smith, 
and the entire staff of the House Armed Services Committee for their 
work on the underlying bill, and I urge adoption of this amendment.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to claim the 
time in opposition, even though I am not opposed to the amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I support this amendment. I have 
supported it in the past. And as Mr. Emmer just mentioned, the House 
has supported it in the past in each of the last 2 years.
  I admire the persistence of the gentleman from Massachusetts in 
pursuing this issue. I think it is the right thing to do. 
Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to convince our colleagues 
across the Capitol or the Pentagon to do this. I know of no opposition 
to the amendment.
  I think the House should continue to support it, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Emmer for his support, and I 
want to thank Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith for their 
support in the past.
  As the chairman of the Armed Services Committee has stated, the House 
has, by voice vote, approved this twice before in the NDAA bills. 
Unfortunately, the Senate has chosen to not respect the wishes of the 
House, so I think it is important that we show a strong bipartisan vote 
on this. So I will ask for a recorded vote because I think it is 
important to send a signal to the Senate that we are serious about this 
and we are serious about honoring our Atomic Veterans.
  Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern).
  The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further 
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from 
Massachusetts will be postponed.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 3 Offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 440, I 
offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 3 consisting of amendment Nos. 16, 49, 54, 55, 
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, and 71 
printed in House Report 115-217, offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas:


        Amendment No. 16 offered by Mr. DesJarlais of Tennessee

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 3124. ANNUAL REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE 
                   NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) Annual Reports.--Not later than 10 days after the date 
     on which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is 
     submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
     the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the 
     Secretary of Energy and the congressional defense committees 
     a report on the unfunded priorities of the National Nuclear 
     Security Administration.
       (b) Elements.--
       (1) In general.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
     specify, for each unfunded priority covered by such report, 
     the following:
       (A) A summary description of such priority, including the 
     objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether 
     in whole or in part).
       (B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
     connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
       (C) Account information with respect to such priority.
       (2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report shall 
     present the unfunded priorities covered by such report in 
     order of urgency of priority.
       (c) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``unfunded priority'', in the case of a fiscal year, means a 
     program, activity, or mission requirement that--
       (1) is not funded in the budget of the President for the 
     fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 
     of title 31;

[[Page H5841]]

       (2) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with 
     the National Nuclear Security Administration; and
       (3) would have been recommended for funding through the 
     budget referred to in paragraph (1) by the Administrator in 
     connection with the budget if--
       (A) additional resources had been available for the budget 
     to fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; or
       (B) the program, activity, or mission requirement has 
     emerged since the budget was formulated.


     Amendment No. 49 Offered by Ms. Plaskett of the Virgin Islands

       Page 185, after line 19, insert the following new section:

     SEC. 605. APPLICATION OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING TO 
                   MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES IN THE VIRGIN 
                   ISLANDS.

       (a) In General.--Section 403(b) of title 37, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and the Virgin Islands'' 
     after ``the United States'';
       (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and the Virgin 
     Islands'' after ``the United States''; and
       (3) in paragraphs (2), (3)(A), and (6), by inserting ``or 
     the Virgin Islands'' after ``the United States'' each place 
     it appears.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 403(c) of title 37, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by inserting ``or the Virgin Islands'' 
     after ``the United States''; and
       (2) in paragraphs (1), (2), (3)(A)(i), and (3)(B), by 
     inserting ``or the Virgin Islands'' after ``the United 
     States'' each place it appears.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act 
     and shall apply to payments under section 403 of title 37, 
     United States Code, beginning on January 1, 2018.


           Amendment No. 54 Offered by Mr. Bera of California

       The amendment as modified is as follows:
       Insert after section 724, the following:

     SEC. 725. REPORT.

       For each of the fiscal years 2018 through 2021, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the 
     Department of Defense's--
       (1) activities and programs with respect to infectious 
     disease;
       (2) priority areas with respect to infectious disease; and
       (3) current policy and planning documents with respect to 
     infectious disease.


        Amendment No. 55 Offered by Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire

       At the end of subtitle C of title VII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 7__. PROVISION OF SUPPORT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO 
                   DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS REGARDING 
                   ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD SYSTEM.

       (a) Support.--The Secretary of Defense may support the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to the extent the Secretaries 
     jointly consider feasible and advisable, in the development 
     and implementation of an electronic health record system 
     that--
       (1) is derivative of the Military Health System Genesis 
     record currently being developed and implemented by the 
     Secretary of Defense; and
       (2) achieves complete interoperability with the Military 
     Health System Genesis.
       (b) Annual Review.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary Veterans Affairs shall jointly conduct an annual 
     review of the efforts undertaken by the Secretaries to 
     achieve complete interoperability between the electronic 
     health record of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
     Military Health System Genesis.
       (c) Annual Report.--
       (1) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after completing each 
     annual review under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense 
     and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to 
     the Committees on Armed Services and the Committees on 
     Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives a report on the review.
       (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
     include an assessment of the following:
       (A) Milestones reached as part of the schedule of 
     development and acquisition as developed by the Department of 
     Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
       (B) Costs associated with development and implementation.
       (C) Actions, if any, of the Secretary of Defense in 
     supporting the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 
     subsection (a) with respect to the development and 
     implementation of an electronic health record system and in 
     achieving complete interoperability with the Military Health 
     System Genesis.
       (D) Status of the adoption of the national standards and 
     architectural requirements identified by the Interagency 
     Program Office of the Departments and in collaboration with 
     the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information 
     Technology of the Department of Health and Human Services.
       (d) Termination.--The requirements under subsection (b) and 
     (c) shall terminate on the date on which the Secretary of 
     Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs jointly certify 
     to the Committees on Armed Services and the Committees on 
     Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives that the electronic health records of both 
     the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs are completely interoperable.
       (e) Interoperability Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``interoperability'' refers to the ability of different 
     electronic health records systems or software to meaningfully 
     exchange information in real time and provide useful results 
     to one or more systems.


          Amendment No. 56 Offered by Ms. Jackson Lee of Texas

       At the end of subtitle C of title VII, add the following 
     new section:C

     SEC. 7__. INCREASED COLLABORATION WITH NIH TO COMBAT TRIPLE 
                   NEGATIVE BREAST CANCER.

       The Office of Health of the Department of Defense shall 
     work in collaboration with the National Institutes of Health 
     to--
       (1) identify specific genetic and molecular targets and 
     biomarkers for triple negative breast cancer; and
       (2) provide information useful in biomarker selection, drug 
     discovery, and clinical trials design that will enable both--
       (A) triple negative breast cancer patients to be identified 
     earlier in the progression of their disease; and
       (B) the development of multiple targeted therapies for the 
     disease.


            Amendment No. 57 Offered by Mr. Soto of Florida

       At the end of subtitle C of title VII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 725. ENCOURAGING TRANSITION OF MILITARY MEDICAL 
                   PROFESSIONALS INTO EMPLOYMENT WITH VETERANS 
                   HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
     program to encourage an individual who serves in the Armed 
     Forces with a military occupational specialty relating to the 
     provision of health care to seek employment with the Veterans 
     Health Administration when the individual has been discharged 
     or released from service in the Armed Forces or is 
     contemplating separating from such service.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to--
       (1) create any additional authority not otherwise provided 
     in law to convert a former member of the Armed Services to an 
     employee of the Veterans Health Administration; or
       (2) circumvent any existing requirement relating to a 
     detail, reassignment, or other transfer of such a former 
     member to the Veterans Health Administration.


            Amendment No. 58 Offered by Mr. Conaway of Texas

       At the end of subtitle D of title VIII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 8__. REPEAL OF CERTAIN AUDITING REQUIREMENTS.

       Section 190 of title 10, United States Code, as proposed to 
     be added by section 820(b)(1) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
     130 Stat. 2274), is amended by striking subsection (f).


      Amendment No. 59 Offered by Mr. Pittenger of North Carolina

       At the end of subtitle D of title VIII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 870A. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH CERTAIN 
                   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.

       (a) List of Covered Contractors.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
     National Intelligence shall develop a list of covered 
     contractors, to be updated as frequently as the Director 
     determines appropriate, and shall make such list available to 
     the Secretary of Defense.
       (b) Prohibition on Contracts.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     not enter into a contract with a covered contractor on the 
     list described under subsection (a).
       (c) Removal From List.--To be removed from the list 
     described in subsection (a), a covered contractor may submit 
     a request to the Director in such manner as the Director 
     determines appropriate. Upon certification of the request, 
     the Director shall remove the covered contractor from the 
     list.
       (d) Waiver.--The President may waive the requirements of 
     subsection (b) if the President determines that the waiver is 
     justified for national security reasons.
       (e) Covered Contractor Defined.--The term ``covered 
     contractor'' means a provider of telecommunications or 
     telecommunications equipment that has been found by the 
     Director to have knowingly assisted or facilitated a cyber 
     attack carried out by or on behalf of the government of the 
     Democratic People's Republic of Korea or persons associated 
     with such government.
       (f) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect 
     to contracts of a covered contractor entered into on or after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act.


          Amendment No. 60 Offered by Mr. DeSantis of Florida

       At the end of title VIII (page 323, after line 4), add the 
     following new section:

     SEC. 871. ASSESSMENT AND AUTHORITY TO TERMINATE OR PROHIBIT 
                   CONTRACTS FOR PROCUREMENT FROM CHINESE 
                   COMPANIES PROVIDING SUPPORT TO THE DEMOCRATIC 
                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

       (a) Assessment Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
     and the Director of National Intelligence, shall conduct an

[[Page H5842]]

     assessment of trade between the People's Republic of China 
     and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including 
     elements deemed to be important to United States national 
     security and defense.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) 
     shall--
       (A) assess the composition of all trade between China and 
     the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including trade in 
     goods and services;
       (B) identify whether any Chinese commercial entities that 
     are engaged in such trade materially support illicit 
     activities on the part of North Korea;
       (C) evaluate the extent to which the United States 
     Government procures goods or services from any commercial 
     entity identified under subparagraph (B);
       (D) provide a list of commercial entities identified under 
     subparagraph (B) that provide defense goods or services for 
     the Department of Defense; and
       (E) evaluate the ramifications to United States national 
     security, including any impacts to the defense industrial 
     base, Department of Defense acquisition programs, and 
     Department of Defense logistics or supply chains, of 
     prohibiting procurements from commercial entities listed 
     under subparagraph (D).
       (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to Congress a report on the assessment required by paragraph 
     (1). The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
     may contain a classified annex.
       (b) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may terminate 
     existing contracts or prohibit the award of contracts for the 
     procurement of goods or services for the Department of 
     Defense from a Chinese commercial entity listed under 
     subsection (a)(2)(D) based on a determination informed by the 
     assessment required under subsection (a).
       (c) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     the appropriate committees of Congress a notification of, and 
     detailed justification for, any exercise of the authority in 
     subsection (b) not less than 30 days before the date on which 
     the authority is exercised.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.


         Amendment No. 61 Offered by Ms. Velazquez of New York

       At the end of subtitle C of title VIII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 860A. EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN CONTRACTS FROM INFLATION 
                   ADJUSTMENTS.

       Subparagraph (B) of section 1908(b)(2) of title 41, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting ``3131 to 3134,'' after 
     ``sections''.


           Amendment No. 62 Offered by Mrs. Murphy of Florida

       At the end of subtitle C of title VIII, insert the 
     following:

     SEC. 8__. INCLUSION OF SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS IN TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE.

       Subsection (c) of section 2418 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking ``issued under'' and inserting the 
     following: ``issued--
       ``(1) under'';
       (2) by striking ``and on'' and inserting ``, and on'';
       (3) by striking ``requirements.'' and inserting 
     ``requirements; and''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
     638), and on compliance with those requirements.''.


      Amendment No. 63 Offered by Mr. Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania

       Page 345, after line 13, insert the following new section:

     SEC. 924. COMPLETION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DIRECTIVE 
                   2310.07E REGARDING MISSING PERSONS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall make the 
     completion of Department of Defense Directive 2310.07E a top 
     priority in order to improve the efficiency of locating 
     missing persons.
       (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``missing 
     person'' has the meaning given such term in section 1513 of 
     title 10, United States Code.


            Amendment No. 64 Offered by Mr. Soto of Florida

       At the end of subtitle C of title IX, insert the following:

     SEC. 9__. RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEVELOPMENTAL TEST AND 
                   EVALUATION WITHIN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 
                   OF DEFENSE.

       (a) Briefing on Plans to Address Developmental Test and 
     Evaluation Responsibilities Within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     House of Representatives on a strategy to ensure that there 
     is sufficient expertise, oversight, and policy direction on 
     developmental test and evaluation within the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense after the completion of the 
     reorganization of such Office required under section 901 of 
     the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
     (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2339).
       (2) Elements.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
     address the following:
       (A) The structure of the roles and responsibilities of the 
     senior Department of Defense official responsible for 
     developmental test and evaluation.
       (B) The location of the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation 
     within the organizational structure of the Office of the 
     Secretary of Defense.
       (C) An estimate of personnel and other resources that 
     should be made available to the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation to 
     ensure that such official can provide independent expertise, 
     oversight, and policy direction and guidance Department of 
     Defense-wide.
       (D) Methods to ensure that the senior Department of Defense 
     official responsible for developmental test and evaluation 
     will be empowered to facilitate Department of Defense-wide 
     efficiencies by helping programs to optimize test designs.
       (E) Methods to ensure that an advocate for test and 
     evaluation workforce will continue to exist within the 
     acquisition workforce.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) developmental testing is critical to reducing 
     acquisition program risk by providing valuable information to 
     support sound decision making;
       (2) major defense acquisition programs often do not conduct 
     enough developmental testing, so too many problems are first 
     identified during operational testing, when they are 
     expensive and time-consuming to fix; and
       (3) in order to ensure that effective developmental testing 
     is conducted on major defense acquisition programs, the 
     Secretary should--
       (A) carefully consider where the senior Department of 
     Defense official responsible for developmental test and 
     evaluation is located within the organizational structure of 
     the Office of the Secretary of Defense; and
       (B) ensure that such official has sufficient authority and 
     resources to provide oversight and policy direction on 
     developmental test and evaluation Department of Defense-wide.


          Amendment No. 65 Offered by Mr. Schiff of California

       Page 359, after line 4, insert the following:

     SEC. 1026. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING PROVIDING FOR TIMELY 
                   VICTIM AND FAMILY TESTIMONY IN MILITARY 
                   COMMISSION TRIALS.

       It is the sense of Congress that in the interests of 
     justice, efficiency, and providing closure to victims of 
     terrorism and their families, military judges overseeing 
     military commissions in United States Naval Station, 
     Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should consider making arrangements to 
     take recorded testimony from victims and their families 
     should they wish to provide testimony before such a 
     commission.


          Amendment No. 66 Offered by Mr. Schiff of California

       Page 359, after line 4, insert the following:

     SEC. 1026. AUTHORITY TO USE VIDEO TELECONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY 
                   IN MILITARY COMMISSION PROCEDURES.

       Section 949d of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(e) Use of Video Teleconferencing.--The military judge 
     may provide for the participation of the accused, defense 
     counsel, trial counsel, and any other participants by video 
     teleconferencing for any matter for which the military judge 
     may call the military commission into session. Any party who 
     participates through the use of video teleconferencing shall 
     be considered as present for purposes of subsection 
     (a)(2).''.


          Amendment No. 67 Offered by Mr. Schiff of California

       Page 359, after line 4, insert the following:

     SEC. 1026. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF MILITARY COMMISSION 
                   PROCEEDINGS.

       Section 949d(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) In the case of any proceeding of a military 
     commission under this chapter that is made open to the 
     public, the military judge may order arrangements for the 
     availability of the proceeding to be watched remotely by the 
     public through the internet.''.


           Amendment No. 68 Offered by Mr. Kildee of Michigan

       Page 469, after line 17, add the following new paragraphs:
       (6) The projected casualties and costs associated with the 
     deployment of members of the Armed Forces to Afghanistan.
       (7) The objectives of deployment of members of the Armed 
     Forces to Afghanistan, including a time line to achieve such 
     objectives as determined by the Secretary of Defense.


          Amendment No. 69 Offered by Mr. Delaney of Maryland

       Page 375, after line 8, insert the following:

     SEC. 1040. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE BIOSAFETY 
                   LEVEL 4 LABORATORIES.

       (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated in this Act may be used to support the closure 
     or transfer of a biosafety level 4 laboratory until the heads

[[Page H5843]]

     of the Federal agencies that use the laboratory jointly 
     certify to the covered congressional committees that the 
     closure or transfer of the lab would not have a negative 
     effect on biological defense capabilities and would not 
     result in a lapse of biological defense capabilities.
       (b) Covered Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
     term ``covered congressional committees'' means--
       (1) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives;
       (2) the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and House 
     of Representatives;
       (3) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     House of Representatives;
       (4) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
       (5) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (6) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate;
       (7) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
     House of Representatives; and
       (8) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
     House of Representatives.


         Amendment No. 70 Offered by Mrs. Comstock of Virginia

       Page 378, strike lines 19 through 23.
       Page 396, after line 4, insert the following:
       (5) STARBASE program report.--By inserting after paragraph 
     (64), as added by paragraph (4), the following new paragraph:
       ``(65) Section 2193b(g).''.


         Amendment No. 71 Offered by Mr. Carbajal of California

       Page 383, lines 2 through 8, strike subsection (b) of 
     section 1051.
       Page 396, after line 11, insert the following:
       (y) Preservation of National Guard Youth Challenge 
     Report.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, and as if 
     included therein as enacted, section 1061(i) of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
     114-328) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(34) Section 509(k) of title 32, United States Code.''.
       Page 396, line 12, strike ``(y)'' and insert ``(z)''.14JY8.
       Page 396, line 13, strike ``subsections (w) and (x)'' and 
     insert ``subsections (w), (x), and (y)''.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Smith) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Wittman).
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Chair, I thank the distinguished gentleman for 
yielding, and I now look forward to entering into a discussion with Mr. 
Poliquin for the purpose of a colloquy.
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. WITTMAN. I yield to the gentleman from Maine.
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the leadership of the Armed 
Services Committee in the Seapower Subcommittee on both sides of the 
aisle to accept this amendment and its important modifications to the 
underlying bill provision limiting the availability of funds for prior 
fiscal year DDG-51 Arleigh Burke class destroyers.
  My revised amendment, Mr. Chair, is agreed to by the committee and, 
importantly, removes the additional, or third, fiscal year 2016 DDG-51 
ship from the provision's proposed requirements.
  Additionally, sir, and again, as agreed to by the committee, it 
states the sense of Congress that the Navy should bear the majority of 
the share-line risk for the fiscal year 2017 DDG-51 Flight III 
destroyer contract, which will represent the first ships to integrate 
the Air and Missile Defense Radar, which is 30 times more effective and 
better than the legacy radar system.
  Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Chair, reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman 
from Maine for working with the committee to improve the provision, 
while maintaining progress towards strengthening our fleet in the 
critical ballistic missile defense mission and capability. Your 
amendment helps us do just that, while ensuring that we maintain the 
health and critical skill workforces at our two proven vital destroyer 
shipbuilders, including Bath Iron Works in Maine.
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. WITTMAN. I yield to the gentleman from Maine.
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry and Chairman 
Wittman for their support on my important amendment. Bath Iron Works is 
a critical national security asset to our country. It is a source of 
great pride for all Mainers, and the shipyard employs some 6,000 of our 
most talented, hardworking citizens who care greatly about their 
contributions every day to keeping America safe and keeping America 
strong.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Murphy), a member of the Armed Services 
Committee.
  Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Mr. Chair, I thank my colleagues for 
including my amendment in this en bloc package.
  My amendment will authorize Procurement Technical Assistance Centers 
to assist small business owners in pursuing funding opportunities 
during all phases of the SBIR and STTR programs.
  These Federal programs enable small businesses to perform research 
and development that advances the national interests and has the 
potential for commercialization.
  My central Florida district is primed to benefit from these programs 
since it is home to a large and growing number of small firms that 
harness the power of technology, produce innovative products for 
customers in the public and private sector, and, in the process, create 
well-paying jobs and generate broad-based economic growth.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. Pittenger).
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to also thank Chairman 
Thornberry and Chairman Sessions for making my amendment in order and 
allowing floor consideration.
  Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple. It prohibits telecommunications 
companies that provide material support for North Korea cyber attacks 
from contracting with our Defense Department.
  While my amendment is simple in nature, it strikes at the heart of 
what I believe to be the cornerstone of North Korea policy.
  For far too long, China has enabled the North Korean Government to 
pursue nuclear development, global provocation, and egregious human 
rights violations. The Chinese Government is simply not a good faith 
partner on the issue of North Korea.
  For example, there have been multiple public reports indicating that 
China's largest government-affiliated telecommunications firm, Huawei, 
has been subpoenaed by the Commerce Department as part of an ongoing 
investigation into whether it broke our export control laws by 
conducting business with North Korea.
  Additionally, earlier this year, a similar Chinese Government-
affiliated firm, ZTE, was hit with a record-breaking billion-dollar 
fine in connection with comparable North Korea-related export 
violations.
  Mr. Chairman, my amendment is one of many steps that our Congress 
needs to take to demonstrate to China we will no longer tolerate its 
alliance and partnership with North Korea.
  I urge my colleagues to support my amendment.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore).
  Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the majority for including my 
amendment in this bloc.
  My amendment is straightforward, Mr. Chairman. It recognizes that any 
U.S. strategy for Syria must acknowledge and respond to the tremendous 
suffering of civilians, including the millions who have been forced 
from their homes, who face starvation, cholera, a lack of access to 
adequate healthcare and education, not as an afterthought, but as an 
active imperative.
  The Trump administration has already used the suffering created by 
the use of chemical weapons as a reason for expanding U.S. involvement 
in Syria and to launch attacks against the Syrian Government. My 
amendment would ask the administration for a description of the legal 
authority relied upon or needed for the use of U.S. military force in 
Syria, information which is even more critical now, given the recent 
attacks by U.S. forces against the Syrian Government and reports that 
we may continue to send more troops into Syria.

  It is foolhardy and unwise for us to think that the suffering being 
imposed upon innocent civilians in Syria should not be a consideration 
in any U.S. response or strategy outlining how military forces or aid 
will be used there. The humanitarian crisis spawned by

[[Page H5844]]

conflict directly impacts our national security efforts. We ignore it 
at our own peril.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Roskam).
  Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Thornberry, and I rise 
today in strong support of the Lamborn amendment requiring a report on 
Iran's use of commercial aircraft to support terrorist groups in rogue 
regimes around the Middle East.
  The Lamborn amendment delivers a simple message to Iran, to Assad, 
and all companies considering selling aircraft to the world's leading 
state sponsor of terrorism, and that is: Congress is watching.
  Congress is watching midnight flights take off from military bases in 
Iran and land in war-torn Damascus carrying terrorists, guns, and 
explosives, which will only be used to shed more innocent blood in the 
Syrian civil war.
  Congress is watching as Boeing and Airbus shake hands and cut deals 
with former leaders of Iran's National Revolutionary Guard Corps like 
Hossein Alaei, CEO of Aseman Airlines, who has called to destroy U.S. 
naval ships sailing in international waters.
  Congress is watching as iconic American and European companies are 
choosing to fuel Iran's terror campaign around the world.
  Mr. Chair, Congress is watching, and Congress will act to ensure that 
Western companies do not become complicit in the Syrian massacre.
  Please support the Lamborn amendment.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett).
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chair, I want to thank the chairman and ranking 
member for agreeing to include my amendment en bloc in the NDAA.
  The amendment that we have is a transitioning of the Virgin Islands 
Active Guard and Reserve from overseas housing allowance to basic 
allowance for housing.
  We know that, in 2013, the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Personnel and Readiness reported that a change would be feasible 
and would not be difficult to allow Virgin Islands Active Guard and 
Reserve members to be part of the basic housing allowance.
  Congress didn't intend inequitable and unfair treatment to the Virgin 
Islands Active Guard and Reserve members, and this amendment provides 
an equitable solution to the disparate treatment of the housing 
allowance for Virgin Islands Active Guard and Reserve members.
  We are grateful for the support and are thankful that our 
servicemembers will now, in their housing, be treated the same as those 
in the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Jody B. Hice).
  Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the 
amendments offered by the gentleman from Florida (Mr. DeSantis) and the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Pittenger).
  As we all know, North Korea has targeted the United States with cyber 
attacks, and they are well on their way to being able to strike the 
United States with conventional and nuclear weapons. These two 
amendments would prohibit the Department of Defense from contracting 
with telecom companies found to be complicit with North Korean cyber 
attacks or Chinese companies found to be providing support for the 
North Korean regime. There is no reason that we should be contracting 
with countries that are enemies of the United States.
  I also support the amendment offered by my friend from Michigan (Mr. 
Bishop). Without a doubt, NATO is the greatest military alliance in the 
world, but that alliance works most effectively when the members of 
those various countries are pulling their weight and fulfilling their 
commitments in regard to their own defense budgets. This amendment 
calls on the President to encourage NATO allies to fulfill their 
commitments and to recognize those who are currently doing so.
  I wholeheartedly agree with these amendments, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Nolan).

                              {time}  0945

  Mr. NOLAN. Mr. Chairman, my first amendment simply declares that none 
of the funds authorized to be appropriated in this bill can be used to 
deploy members of the Armed Forces to participate in the ongoing civil 
war in Yemen.
  By passing this amendment, we ensure that no hero, no patriot in a 
U.S. military uniform will be put in harm's way in a conflict that can 
only be settled by the parties involved.
  My second amendment simply cuts off funds to any so-called friendly 
rebels in Iraq or Syria who make a mockery of our good intentions by 
misusing American arms and resources, and, in far too many instances, 
using them against us.
  We have already spent trillions of dollars, lost thousands of 
precious lives in these endless wars of choice in the Middle East. It 
is time to put a stop to it, time to start investing in America and the 
American people. So I urge the adoption of these amendments en bloc.
  I would only add that the President, in his last campaign, had a 
message that we need to embrace, and I think the en bloc group of 
amendments takes us in that direction. He pointed out we spend $6 
trillion in Iraq and Afghanistan alone. For one of those trillion, we 
could have graduated every kid in America from college debt-free. For 
another one of those trillion, there is your trillion dollars for 
infrastructure to fix the trains that are coming off the track and the 
bridges that are falling down. For another one of those trillion, we 
could have found a cure for cancer or Alzheimer's or diabetes, and we 
still would have had $3 trillion for deficit reduction.
  I applaud this committee for all the work that they are doing and the 
direction that they are taking us back to in getting us out of these 
endless wars of choice and start reinvesting in America, the American 
people, and the American infrastructure. That creates good jobs and the 
quality of life that we embrace.
  To be sure, we must have a strong national security. There are evil 
people and evil forces out there that we need to protect ourselves 
against, but that doesn't mean we have to get involved in every civil 
war and every war of choice in the world.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Rohrabacher).
  Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this en bloc 
package. I especially want to thank the chairman for including my 
amendment as part of the other very positive amendments that he has 
included in this en bloc package.
  My amendment would condition the allocation of certain funds to 
Pakistan upon a certification from the Secretary of Defense that 
Pakistan is not using its military or its funds or equipment provided 
by the United States to repress minority groups, and to make sure that 
they do not repress these minority groups who are seeking their own 
political or religious freedom.
  At a time of high budgets, we should reserve our aid for friends and 
allies, and end assistance to Pakistan in particular, which does not 
meet the standards of decency and freedom that the American people 
believe have to be part of any decision that we make here.
  Pakistan has acted as an adversary not only to the United States, but 
has been aiding our enemies and repressing its own people. Let us not 
forget that Pakistan harbored Osama bin Laden. This is the prime mover, 
the man who organized the slaughter of 3,000 Americans.
  We are fools if we continue to support a regime like that in Pakistan 
today that represses its own people and is using what we give them to 
actually do things that make us less safe as a people and put us in 
jeopardy with the terrorists around the world.
  Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for including my amendment to the en 
bloc package.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Moulton), a member of the Armed 
Services Committee.
  Mr. MOULTON. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman and the ranking member 
for including this amendment in the en

[[Page H5845]]

bloc package, because I remain concerned about the lack of a clear plan 
or strategy in Syria.
  As the Syrian opposition supported by U.S. and coalition forces fight 
to liberate Raqqa from ISIS control, we are confronted with the complex 
and critical question of what comes next. Freeing Syrians from the 
brutality of ISIS is but one part of a complex, grinding civil war that 
began with the Assad regime's heinous violence against civilians and 
has endured for over 6 years, with over 400,000 Syrians killed, 6 
billion Syrians displaced within Syria, and over 4.5 million forced to 
flee as refugees.
  We now have over 500 U.S. troops deployed to Syria to advise and 
assist Syrian opposition forces. However, we have yet to have a clear, 
comprehensive political strategy that describes what the end goals are 
for U.S. involvement and how we hope to achieve those goals.
  This amendment requires just that, and follows a similar effort I led 
with General and Representative John Bacon on Iraq that received 
bipartisan support in the Armed Services Committee last year.
  This amendment requires a comprehensive political and military 
strategy for U.S. policy in Syria to be submitted by the Departments of 
Defense and State to Congress and the American people within 90 days of 
enactment.
  We owe it to our troops, those young men and women whom we ask to 
risk their lives in Syria today, to tell them what their job is, what 
it entails, what the end goal is, and why it is worth the risks that 
they take every single day.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Lamborn).
  Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry for yielding and 
for his great work leading us on the NDAA.
  I would like to address two amendments that are coming up in en bloc 
packages.
  First of all, on Iran, my amendment to the NDAA, No. 361, requires 
the President, along with various agencies, to provide the House with a 
report regarding Iran's use of commercial aircraft for illicit 
activities. I am doing this with Representative Roskam.
  Diligent research from think tanks, such as the Foundation for 
Defense of Democracies and the American Enterprise Institute, have 
demonstrated the need for the intelligence community to provide 
Congress with a report of their activities.
  In total, Iran Air, Mahan Air, Pouya Air, Cham Wings Airlines, and 
the Iranian Air Force operated at least 404 flights from Iran to Syria 
since the Iran nuclear deal was adopted on July 14, 2015.
  Now, this report does not block the sale of commercial aircraft to 
Iran, but asks the intelligence community to take a serious look at 
these sales so Congress can determine if they should continue.
  The other amendment I would like to address, Mr. Chairman, is No. 364 
on boost-phase missile defense. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry 
for including this amendment, which was cosponsored by Mr. Kinzinger, 
Mr. Hunter, Mr. Franks, and Mr. Wilson from South Carolina, to advance 
boost-phase missile defense programs.
  As you know, ballistic missiles are at their most defenseless when 
they are in their boost phase, the initial phase of flight. They are at 
their slowest, and they have not yet deployed decoys and 
countermeasures that would make it more difficult to shoot them down in 
later phases of flight.
  This amendment will make Americans safer as we move towards advancing 
this absolutely critical technology.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I have no further speakers on 
this amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, neither do I have other speakers on 
this en bloc package, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 4 Offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 440, I 
offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 4 consisting of amendment Nos. 72, 73, 74, 75, 
76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, and 91, 
printed in House Report 115-217, offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas:


        Amendment No. 72 Offered by Mr. Gottheimer of New Jersey

       Page 386, beginning on line 11, strike subsection (l).
       Page 396, after line 11, insert the following:
       (y)  Annual Report on Support to Law Enforcement Agencies 
     Conducting Counter-terrorism Activities.--Effective as of 
     December 23, 2016, and as if included therein as enacted, 
     section 1061(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended by adding at 
     the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Section 1022(c).''.
       Page 396, line 12, strike ``(y)'' and insert ``(z)''.
       Page 396, lines 12 through 13, strike ``subsections (w) and 
     (x)'' and insert ``subsections (w), (x), and (y)''.


      Amendment No. 73 Offered by Mr. Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania

       At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the following new 
     section:

     SEC. 1058. STUDY ON HEALTH EFFECTS OF EXPOSURE TO 
                   PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONATE AND PERFLUOROOCTANOIC 
                   ACID FROM FIREFIGHTING FOAM USED AT MILITARY 
                   INSTALLATIONS.

       (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
     the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
     Disease Registry, shall carry out a study on any health 
     effects experienced by individuals who are exposed to 
     perfluorooctane sulfonate and perfluorooctanoic acid from 
     firefighting foam used at military installations or former 
     military installations, including exposure through a well 
     that provides water for human consumption that the Secretary 
     determines is contaminated with perfluorooctane sulfonate and 
     perfluorooctanoic acid from such firefighting foam.
       (b) Design of Study.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
     study under subsection (a) meets the following criteria:
       (1) The study includes a review of relevant literature.
       (2) The study includes community input through community 
     advisory groups or focus groups.
       (3) The study identifies existing research regarding health 
     effects relating to exposure described in subsection (a).
       (4) The study includes protocols based on expertise from 
     epidemiologists.
       (5) The study identifies and characterizes one or more 
     sources of water contamination and collects preliminary 
     information on the magnitude and distribution of such 
     exposure.
       (6) Based on the information learned under paragraphs (1) 
     through (5), the study determines the specific health effects 
     and perfluorooctane sulfonates and perfluorooctanoic acids to 
     evaluate.
       (7) The study includes biomonitoring from a sample of 
     community members, including with respect to specific 
     subgroups considered at risk for such exposure.
       (8) The study collects data on possible biological changes 
     potentially associated with such exposure.
       (9) The study includes detailed exposure and health 
     questionnaires.
       (10) The study includes the review of medical records.
       (11) The study analyzes data for an association between 
     such exposure and potential health effects.
       (c) Submission.--Not later than five years after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to 
     the congressional defense committees the study under 
     subsection (a). The Secretary shall make such study publicly 
     available pursuant to section 122a of title 10, United States 
     Code.


    Amendment No. 74 Offered by Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania

       At the end of title X, add the following new section:

     SEC. 10__. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CYBERSECURITY COOPERATION 
                   WITH UKRAINE.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) There is a strong history of cyber attacks in Ukraine.
       (2) The United States supports Ukraine and the European 
     Deterrence Initiative.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the United States reaffirms support for the sovereignty 
     and territorial integrity of Ukraine; and
       (2) the United States should assist Ukraine in improving 
     its cybersecurity capabilities.


     Amendment No. 75 Offered by Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following new 
     section:

     SEC. __. APOLLO I MEMORIAL.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) On January 27, 1967, NASA Astronauts Command Pilot 
     Virgil I. ``Gus'' Grissom, Senior Pilot Edward H. White II, 
     and Pilot

[[Page H5846]]

     Roger B. Chaffee were killed in an electrical fire that broke 
     out inside the Apollo I Command Module on Launch Pad 34 at 
     the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
       (2) Command Pilot Virgil Grissom was selected by NASA in 
     1959 as one of the original seven Mercury astronauts. He 
     piloted the Liberty Bell 7 spacecraft on July 21, 1963, on 
     the second and final Mercury suborbital test flight, served 
     as command pilot on the first manned Gemini flight on March 
     23, 1965, and was named as Command Pilot of the first Apollo 
     flight. He began his career in the United States Army Air 
     Corps and was a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Air 
     Force at the time of the accident, and he is buried at 
     Arlington National Cemetery.
       (3) Senior Pilot Edward H. White II was selected by NASA as 
     a member of the second astronaut team in 1962. He piloted the 
     Gemini-4 mission, a 4-day mission that took place in June 
     1965, during which he conducted the first extravehicular 
     activity in the United States human spaceflight program. He 
     was named as Command Module Pilot for the first Apollo 
     flight. He began his career as a cadet in United States 
     Military Academy at West Point and was a Lieutenant Colonel 
     in the United States Air Force at the time of the accident.
       (4) Pilot Roger B. Chaffee was selected by NASA as part of 
     the third group of astronauts in 1963. He was named as the 
     Lunar Module Pilot for the first Apollo flight. He began his 
     career as a ROTC cadet before commissioning as an ensign in 
     the United States Navy, he was a Lieutenant Commander in the 
     United States Navy at the time of the accident, and he is 
     buried at Arlington National Cemetery.
       (5) All 3 astronauts were posthumously awarded the 
     Congressional Space Medal of Honor.
       (6) As Arlington National Cemetery is where we recognize 
     heroes who have passed in the service of our Nation, it is 
     fitting on the 50th anniversary of the Apollo I accident that 
     we acknowledge those astronauts by building a memorial in 
     their honor.
       (b) Construction of Memorial to the Crew of the Apollo I 
     Launch Test Accident at Arlington National Cemetery.--
       (1) Construction required.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall, in consultation with the Administrator of the National 
     Aeronautics and Space Administration, construct at an 
     appropriate place in Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, a 
     memorial marker honoring the three members of the crew of the 
     Apollo I crew who died during a launch rehearsal test on 
     January 27, 1967, in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
       (2) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     in section 4201 for management support, Space and Missile 
     Center (SMC) civilian workforce (Line 152), as specified in 
     the corresponding funding table in section 4201, $50,000 
     shall be available for the construction required under 
     paragraph (1) of this subsection.


        Amendment No. 76 Offered by Mr. Wilson of South Carolina

       Page 451, after line 6, insert the following:

     SEC. 1073. NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMIST 
                   GROUPS.

       (a) Strategy Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than June 1, 2018, the President 
     shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     report on a comprehensive, interagency national strategy for 
     countering violent extremist groups.
       (2) Elements.--The comprehensive, interagency national 
     strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the 
     following elements:
       (A) Identification and prioritization of the threats, 
     including a description of capability and intent posed to the 
     United States and United States interests, from violent 
     extremist groups and their ideologies, by region and 
     affiliated group, including any state-sponsors for such 
     groups.
       (B) Identification of the interagency tools for combating 
     and countering violent extremist groups, including--
       (i) countering violent extremist group messaging and 
     ideological support;
       (ii) combating terrorist group financing; intelligence 
     gathering and cooperation;
       (iii) law enforcement activities; sanctions; 
     counterterrorism and counterintelligence activities;
       (iv) support to civil-society groups, commercial entities, 
     allies and counter radicalization activities of such groups; 
     and
       (v) support by the Armed Forces of the United States to 
     combat violent extremist groups.
       (C) Use of, coordination with, or liaison to international 
     partners, non-governmental organizations, or commercial 
     entities that support United States policy goals in 
     countering violent extremist ideologies and organizations.
       (D) Synchronization processes for these use of these 
     interagency tools against the priority threats, including the 
     roles and responsibilities of the Global Engagement Center, 
     as well as the National Security Council in coordinating the 
     interagency tools.
       (E) Recommendations for improving coordination between 
     Federal Government agencies, as well as with State, local, 
     international, and non-governmental entities.
       (F) Other matters as the President considers appropriate.
       (b) Assessment.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the submission of the strategy required by subsection (a), 
     the President shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress an assessment of the strategy, including--
       (1) the status of implementation of the strategy;
       (2) progress toward the achievement of benchmarks or 
     implementation of any recommendations; and
       (3) any changes to the strategy since such submission.
       (c) Form.--Each report required by this section shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, 
     the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
       (1) the Committees on Foreign Relations, Armed Services, 
     Appropriations, Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, 
     and the Judiciary and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the Senate; and
       (2) the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Armed Services, 
     Appropriations, Homeland Security, and the Judiciary and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives.


          Amendment No. 77 Offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following:

     SEC. 1073. ADEQUACY OF THE REPORT ON THE VULNERABILITIES OF 
                   THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

       (a) Comprehensive Report on Vulnerabilities of, and 
     Concentration of Purchases in, the Defense Industrial Base.--
       (1) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and at least annually until September 
     30, 2023, before March 31, thereafter the President shall 
     issue to the appropriate congressional committees a 
     comprehensive report combining all of the elements of the 
     reports described in paragraph (4) and any other relevant 
     reports on the adequacy of, vulnerabilities of, and 
     concentration of purchases in the defense industrial sector.
       (2) Consultation.--In preparing a report under paragraph 
     (1), the President shall consult with the Secretary of State, 
     the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
     Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the 
     National Security Agency and such other cabinet officials and 
     heads of Federal departments and agencies? as the President 
     determines to be appropriate.
       (3) Form of report.--Each report issued under paragraph (1) 
     shall be in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (4) List of reports.--Each report issued under paragraph 
     (1) shall contain all relevant information and analysis from 
     the following reports, as well as such other relevant 
     information as the President determines to be appropriate:
       (A) The report described under section 721(m) of the 
     Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(m)), relating 
     to concentrations of purchases of the defense industrial 
     base.
       (B) The report described under section 723(a) of the 
     Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4568(a)), relating 
     to offsets in defense production.
       (C) The report described under section 2504 of title 10, 
     United States Code, relating to annual industrial 
     capabilities.
       (D) The ``Report on Defense Industrial Base'' described 
     under section 842(c) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991.
       (E) The ``Study of Field Failures Involving Counterfeit 
     Electronic Parts'' described under section 238 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
       (F) The ``Report on Alternative Capabilities to Procure and 
     Sustain Nonstandard Rotary Wing Aircraft Historically 
     Procured Through Rosoboronexport'' described under section 
     1249 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2016.
       (G) The report described under section 843 of the Ike 
     Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2011, relating to rare earth materials critical to national 
     security.
       (H) The ``Biennial Report on Nuclear Triad'' described 
     under section 1054 of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.
       (I) The ``Report on Solid Rocket Motor Industrial 
     Base''described under section 1050 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.
       (J) The ``Assessment of United States Defense Industrial 
     Base Capabilities'' described under section 812 of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004.
       (K) The report related to ``Monitoring and Enforcement of 
     Mitigation Agreements Related to Foreign Investment in the 
     United States'' described under House Report 113-102.
       (L) The additive manufacturing recommendation described in 
     House Report 113-446.
       (M) The ``Assessment of the directed energy industrial 
     base'' described in House Report 114-102.
       (b) Comprehensive Database of Proposed Transactions or 
     Purchases in the Defense Industrial Base Involving a Foreign 
     Person.--
       (1) Establishment and maintenance of database.--
       (A) In general.--The President shall establish and keep 
     current a database of proposed transactions that would result 
     in all

[[Page H5847]]

     of, a substantial part of, or a controlling interest in, a U. 
     S. corporation, or the U. S. assets of a foreign corporation, 
     being owned or controlled by a foreign person, in the defense 
     industrial base and any manufacturing or intellectual 
     property related to the defense industrial base.
       (B) Confidentiality of information.--Except as provided 
     under subparagraph (C), the President shall ensure that the 
     information contained in the database is kept confidential.
       (C) Access to database.--The President shall--
       (i) ensure that access to information in the database is 
     strictly controlled;
       (ii) make the database available to the Secretary of State, 
     the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
     Director of National Intelligence, and the National Security 
     Agency, with such limitations as the President may determine 
     appropriate;
       (iii) require that records are kept each time a person 
     accesses information in the database; and
       (iv) require that any person receiving information from the 
     database continues to preserve the confidentiality of the 
     information.
       (2) Mandatory filing requirement.--
       (A) In general.--With respect to any proposed transaction 
     described under paragraph (1)(A), the proposed purchaser and 
     proposed seller in such proposed transaction shall file, and 
     keep current, a report with the database containing a 
     description of the proposed transaction.
       (B) Additional information for proposed transactions 
     involving a foreign government-controlled corporation.--If, 
     with respect to proposed transaction described in 
     subparagraph (A), any foreign person is a foreign government-
     controlled corporation, the report required under 
     subparagraph (A) shall also disclose whether such foreign 
     government-controlled corporation is--
       (i) a Chinese corporation;
       (ii) a Russian corporation;
       (iii) an Iranian corporation; or
       (iv) a North Korean corporation.
       (C) Civil penalty.--Any person who willfully violates a 
     provision of this paragraph shall be fined not more than 
     $100,000 per violation.
       (c) Defense Industrial Base Technologies Controlled.--
       (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     statutes and mechanisms to control the export of critical 
     technologies or related intellectual property must be kept 
     up-to-date, reflecting changes in the defense industrial 
     base, technology, and the global market, in order to 
     adequately protect United States national security.
       (2) Report.--Annually, until September 30, 2023, before 
     March 31, the President shall deliver to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report describing any need for 
     reforms of policies governing the export of technology or 
     related intellectual property, along with any proposed 
     legislative changes the President believes are necessary.
       (d) Separate Reports Required.--The reports required under 
     subsections (a)(1) and (c)(2) may be issued concurrently, but 
     shall be issued as separate reports.
       (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee 
     on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial Services, the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and 
     the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
     Senate.
       (2) Database.--The term ``database'' means the database 
     established pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(A).
       (3) Defense industrial base.--The term ``defense industrial 
     base'' shall have the meaning given the term ``national 
     technology and industrial base'' within the context of 
     section 2503 of title 10, United States Code.
       (4) Definitions related to corporations.--
       (A) Corporation.--The term ``corporation'' means a 
     corporation, partnership, or other organization.
       (B) Foreign corporation.--The term ``foreign corporation'' 
     means a corporation organized under the laws of a foreign 
     country.
       (C) U.S. corporation.--The term ``U.S. corporation'' means 
     a corporation organized under the laws of the United States.


        Amendment No. 78 Offered by Mr. Moulton of Massachusetts

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following new 
     section:

     SEC. 10__. FEDERAL CHARTER FOR SPIRIT OF AMERICA.

       (a) Federal Charter.--
       (1) In general.--Part B of subtitle II of title 36, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 2003 the 
     following new chapter:

                   ``CHAPTER 2005--SPIRIT OF AMERICA

``Sec.
``200501. Organization.
``200502. Purposes.
``200503. Powers.
``200504. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
``200505. Annual report.

     ``Sec. 200501. Organization

       ``(a) Federal Charter.--Spirit of America (in this chapter 
     `the corporation'), a nonprofit corporation, is a federally 
     chartered corporation.
       ``(b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not 
     comply with the provisions of this chapter, the charter 
     granted by this chapter expires.
       ``(c) Scope of Charter.--Nothing in the charter granted by 
     this chapter shall be construed as conferring special rights 
     or privileges upon the corporation, or as placing upon the 
     Department of Defense any obligation with respect to the 
     corporation.

     ``Sec. 200502. Purposes

       ``The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its 
     constitution and bylaws and include the following patriotic, 
     charitable, and inspirational purposes:
       ``(1) To respond to the needs of local populations abroad, 
     as identified by members of the Armed Forces and diplomats of 
     the United States abroad.
       ``(2) To provide privately-funded humanitarian, economic, 
     and other nonlethal assistance to address such needs.
       ``(3) To support the safety and success of members of the 
     Armed Forces and diplomats of the United States abroad.
       ``(4) To connect the people of the United States more 
     closely to the members of the Armed Forces and diplomats of 
     the United States abroad, and to the missions carried out by 
     such personnel abroad.
       ``(5) To demonstrate the goodwill of the people of the 
     United States to peoples around the world.

     ``Sec. 200503. Powers

       ``The corporation may--
       ``(1) adopt and amend a constitution, by-laws, and 
     regulations to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
       ``(2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
       ``(3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
     activities;
       ``(4) enter into contracts;
       ``(5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property 
     as necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the 
     corporation;
       ``(6) establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate 
     State and territorial subdivisions and local chapters or 
     posts;
       ``(7) publish a magazine and other publications (including 
     through the Internet);
       ``(8) sue and be sued; and
       ``(9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out 
     the purposes of the corporation as provided in its 
     constitution, by-laws, and regulations.

     ``Sec. 200504. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

       ``If the corporation fails to maintain its status as an 
     organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986, the charter granted under this chapter shall 
     terminate.

     ``Sec. 200505. Annual report

       ``The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress 
     on the activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal 
     year. The report shall be submitted at the same time as the 
     report of the audit required by section 10101 of this title. 
     The report may not be printed as a public document.''.
       (2) Tables of chapters.--The table of chapters at the 
     beginning of title 36, United States Code, and at the 
     beginning of subtitle II of such title, are each amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to chapter 2003 the 
     following new item:

``2005. Spirit of America 200501.''....................................

       (b) Distribution of Corporation Assistance Abroad Through 
     Department of Defense.--
       (1) Acceptance and coordination of assistance.--The 
     Department of Defense (including members of the Armed Forces) 
     may, in the discretion of the Secretary of Defense and in 
     accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary--
       (A) accept from Spirit of America, a federally-chartered 
     corporation under chapter 2005 of title 36, United States 
     Code (as added by subsection (a)), humanitarian, economic, 
     and other nonlethal assistance funded by private funds in the 
     carrying out of the purposes of the corporation; and
       (B) respond to requests from the corporation for the 
     identification of the needs of local populations abroad for 
     assistance, and coordinate with the corporation in the 
     provision and distribution of such assistance, in the 
     carrying out of such purposes.
       (2) Distribution of assistance to local populations.--In 
     accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary, members of 
     the Armed Forces abroad may provide to local populations 
     abroad humanitarian, economic, and other nonlethal assistance 
     provided to the Department by the corporation pursuant to 
     this subsection.
       (3) Scope of guidance.--The guidance issued pursuant to 
     this subsection shall ensure that any assistance distributed 
     pursuant to this subsection shall be for purposes of 
     supporting the mission or missions of the Department and the 
     Armed Forces for which such assistance is provided by the 
     corporation.
       (4) DoD support for corporation activities.--In accordance 
     with guidance issued by the Secretary, the Department and the 
     Armed Forces may--
       (A) provide transportation, lodging, storage, and other 
     logistical support--
       (i) to personnel of the corporation (whether in the United 
     States or abroad) who are carrying out the purposes of the 
     corporation; and

[[Page H5848]]

       (ii) in connection with the acceptance and distribution of 
     assistance provided by the corporation; and
       (B) use assets of the Department and the Armed Forces in 
     the provision of support described in subparagraph (A).


          Amendment No. 79 Offered by Mr. Connolly of Virginia

       At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the following new 
     section:

     SEC. 10__. AIR TRANSPORTATION OF CIVILIAN DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE PERSONNEL TO AND FROM AFGHANISTAN.

       (a) Policy Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     conduct a policy review regarding the use of commercial air 
     transportation or alternative forms of air transportation to 
     transport civilian personnel of the Department of Defense to 
     and from Afghanistan.
       (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     completion of the policy review required by subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
     committees a report on the results of such review.
       (c) Updated Guidelines.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     completion of the policy review required by subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall issue updated guidelines, based on the 
     report submitted under subsection (b), regarding the use of 
     commercial air transportation or alternative forms of air 
     transportation to transport civilian personnel of the 
     Department to and from Afghanistan.


            Amendment No. 80 Offered by Mr. Davidson of Ohio

       Page 451, after line 6, insert the following:

     SEC. 10__. COLLABORATION BETWEEN FAA AND DOD ON UNMANNED 
                   AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

       (a) Collaboration.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration and the Secretary of Defense are encouraged to 
     collaborate on sense-and-avoid capabilities for unmanned 
     aircraft systems.
       (2) Elements.--The collaboration described in paragraph (1) 
     should include the following:
       (A) Sharing information on safely integrating unmanned 
     aircraft systems and manned aircraft in the national airspace 
     system.
       (B) Building upon the experience of the Department of 
     Defense, including the Air Force, to inform the Federal 
     Aviation Administration's development of civil standards, 
     policies, and procedures for integrating unmanned aircraft 
     systems in the nation airspace system.
       (C) Informing--
       (i) development of airborne and ground-based sense-and-
     avoid capabilities for unmanned aircraft systems; and
       (ii) research and development on unmanned aircraft systems, 
     especially with respect to matters involving human factors, 
     information assurance, and security.
       (b) Participation by FAA in DOD Activities.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration is encouraged to participate, and provide 
     assistance for participation, in test and evaluation efforts 
     of the Department of Defense, including the Air Force, 
     relating to airborne and ground-based sense-and-avoid 
     capabilities for unmanned aircraft systems.
       (2) Participation through centers of excellence and test 
     sites.--Participation under paragraph (1) may include 
     provision of assistance through unmanned aircraft systems 
     test sites.
       (c) Unmanned Aircraft Systems Defined.--In this section, 
     the term ``unmanned aircraft system'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 331 of the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).


       Amendment No. 81 Offered by Mr. Rohrabacher of California

       Page 473, line 15, strike ``and''.
       Page 473, line 17, strike the period at the end and insert 
     a semicolon.
       Page 473, after line 17, insert the following:
       (C) in paragraph (3), strike ``and'' at the end;
       (D) in paragraph (4), strike the period at the end and 
     insert ``; and'' ; and
       (E) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) Pakistan is not using its military or any funds or 
     equipment provided by the United States to persecute minority 
     groups seeking political or religious freedom, including the 
     Balochi, Sindhi, and Hazara ethnic groups and minority 
     religious groups, including Christian, Hindu, and Ahmadiyya 
     Muslim.''.


              Amendment No. 82 Offered by Mr. Poe of Texas

       Page 473, line 15, strike ``and''.
       Page 473, line 17, strike the period at the end and insert 
     a semicolon.
       Page 473, after line 17, insert the following:
       (C) in paragraph (3), strike ``and'' at the end;
       (D) in paragraph (4), strike the period at the end and 
     insert ``; and''; and
       (E) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) Pakistan is not providing military, financial, or 
     logistical support to specially designated global terrorists 
     operating in Afghanistan or Pakistan.''.


           Amendment No. 83 Offered by Ms. Moore of Wisconsin

       Page 474, line 21, insert after ``objectives'' the 
     following: ``, including the funding estimated to be needed 
     each year by the Department of Defense and by the Department 
     of State (including the United States Agency for 
     International Development)''.
       Page 475, after line 15, insert the following:
       (9) A description of the legal authority needed to 
     introduce United States ground combat forces in Syria or 
     needed to accomplish long term and short term military 
     objectives in Syria and a description of the capabilities and 
     willingness of the Syrian government (and its allies) to use 
     chemical or other weapons of mass destructions against its 
     citizens and potentially United States and associated 
     military forces Syria.
       (10) A description of all necessary contact between the 
     United States and the governments of Russia and other state 
     actors in order to achieve the United States strategy in 
     Syria.
       Page 475, after line 22, insert the following new section:

     SEC. 1221A. REPORT ON IMPACT OF HUMANITARIAN CRISIS ON 
                   ACHIEVEMENT OF UNITED STATES SECURITY 
                   OBJECTIVES IN SYRIA.

       (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees (as defined in section 1221(c)) a report that 
     provides an assessment of the impact of the humanitarian 
     crisis in Syria on the achievement of goals of the United 
     States in the region, such as destroying and dismantling the 
     Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant and peace and stability 
     in Syria and the broader region.
       (b) Contents.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall 
     include a description of--
       (1) the response of the United States to the short-term and 
     long-term humanitarian crisis in Syria caused by attacks on 
     the people of Syria by its government, including attacks on 
     hospitals and other medical and educational facilities; and
       (2) how the United States intends to support the needs of 
     refugees and internally displaced populations and intends to 
     improve access to humanitarian aid for areas where such aid 
     has been blocked.


           Amendment No. 84 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       Page 555, after line 12, insert the following:
       (e) No Authorization for Deployment of Armed Forces.--None 
     of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act are 
     authorized to be made available to deploy members of the 
     Armed Forces to participate in the ongoing civil war in 
     Yemen.


  Amendment No. 85 Offered by Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico

       At the end of title XI, add the following:

     SEC. 1109. BRIEFING ON DIVERSITY IN THE CIVILIAN WORKFORCE ON 
                   AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS.

       Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall brief the Committee 
     on Armed Services of the Senate, the Committee on Armed 
     Services of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House 
     of Representatives on efforts to increase diversity in the 
     civilian workforce on each Air Force installation, including 
     regional and State demographics regarding diversity.


           Amendment No. 86 Offered by Mr. Gallego of Arizona

       At the end of subtitle C of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. REPORTS ON DEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES COMBAT 
                   FORCES TO SYRIA.

       (a) In General.--The President shall submit to Congress a 
     report on the deployment of United States combat forces to 
     Syria, including number of troops, extent of deployment, and 
     purpose of deployment.
       (b) Deadline.--The President shall submit the report 
     required under subsection (a) not later than 90 days after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90 days 
     thereafter through the end of calendar year 2020.


          Amendment No. 87 Offered by Mr. Lamborn of Colorado

       At the end of subtitle C of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OF 
                   COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT AND RELATED SERVICES FOR 
                   ILLICIT ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     President, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the 
     Secretary of State, and the Director of National 
     Intelligence, shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Committee on 
     Financial Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
     Intelligence of the House of Representatives a report on use 
     by the Government of Iran of commercial aircraft and related 
     services for illicit activities.
       (b) Elements of Report.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall include a description of the extent to 
     which--
       (1) the Government of Iran is using commercial aircraft, 
     including aircraft of Iran Air, or related services to 
     transport illicit cargo to or from Iran, including military 
     goods, weapons, military personnel, military-related 
     electronic parts and mechanical equipment, or rocket or 
     missile components; and
       (2) the commercial aviation sector of Iran, including Iran 
     Air, is providing financial, material, or technological 
     support to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Iran's

[[Page H5849]]

     Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics, the Bashar al 
     Assad Regime, Hezbollah, Hamas, Kata'ib Hezbollah, or any 
     other Foreign Terrorist Organization or entities designated 
     as a specially designated national and blocked person on the 
     list maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
     the Department of the Treasury.
       (c) Sunset.--This section shall cease to be effective on 
     the date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
     President certifies to Congress that the Government of Iran 
     has ceased providing support for acts of international 
     terrorism.


           Amendment No. 88 Offered by Mr. Nolan of Minnesota

       At the end of subtitle C of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 12__. LIMITATION ON FUNDING.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund are authorized to be made 
     available to provide assistance to any recipient of such 
     funds that the Secretary of Defense has reported, pursuant to 
     a quarterly progress report submitted pursuant to section 
     1209 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541), as having 
     previously misused training or equipment provided by the 
     United States.


           Amendment No. 89 Offered by Mr. Engel of New York

       At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. REPORT ON DEFENSE COOPERATION BETWEEN SERBIA AND 
                   THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees and the Committees on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
     defense and security relationship between Serbia and the 
     Russian Federation.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A list of Russian weapons systems and other military 
     hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that 
     have been provided to Serbia since 2012.
       (2) A description of the participation by Serbian armed 
     forces in Russian military training or exercises since 2012.
       (3) A list of any defense and security cooperation 
     agreements between Serbia and Russia entered into since 2012.
       (4) An assessment of how the countries bordering Serbia 
     assess the risk the Serbian armed forces pose to their 
     national security.
       (5) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between 
     Serbia and Russia.
       (6) An assessment of defense and security cooperation 
     between Serbia and the United States.
       (7) An assessment of how military relations between Serbia 
     and Russia affect United States defense and security 
     cooperation with Serbia and cooperation between Serbia and 
     the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
       (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.


           Amendment No. 90 Offered by Ms. Cheney of Wyoming

       At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 12__. PLAN TO RESPOND IN CASE OF RUSSIAN NONCOMPLIANCE 
                   WITH THE NEW START TREATY.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate a report--
       (1) describing the options available in response to a 
     failure by Russia to achieve the reductions required by the 
     New START Treaty before February 5, 2018; and
       (2) including the assessment of the Secretary of Defense 
     whether such a failure would constitute a material breach of 
     the New START Treaty, providing grounds for the United States 
     to withdraw from the treaty.
       (b) Options Described.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall specifically describe options to respond 
     to such a failure relating to the following:
       (1) Economic sanctions.
       (2) Diplomacy.
       (3) Additional deployment of ballistic or cruise missile 
     defense capabilities, or other United States capabilities 
     that would offset any potential Russian military advantage 
     from such a failure.
       (4) Redeployment of United States nuclear forces beyond the 
     levels required by the New START Treaty, and the associated 
     costs and impacts on United States operations.
       (5) Legal countermeasures available under other treaties 
     between the United States and Russia, including under the 
     Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and 
     entered into force January 1, 2002.
       (c) New START Treaty.--In this section, the term ``New 
     START Treaty'' means the Treaty between the United States of 
     America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the 
     Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, 
     signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and entered into force 
     February 5, 2011.


        Amendment No. 91 Offered by Mr. Walker of North Carolina

       At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. REPORT ON NAVAL PORT OF CALL EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE 
                   UNITED STATES AND TAIWAN.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than September 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress a report on the following:
       (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability 
     regarding ports of call by the United States Navy at ports on 
     the island of Taiwan.
       (2) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
     the United States to receiving ports of call by the Republic 
     of China navy in Hawaii, Guam, and other appropriate 
     locations.
       (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
       (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Smith) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson).
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Mac 
Thornberry for his extraordinary leadership and for the opportunity to 
speak on amendment No. 76.
  In the past few years, we have seen a clear rise in how terrorist and 
extremist groups use propaganda and sophisticated messaging operations 
to increase their reach to recruit new members, execute attacks, and 
raise funds.
  These violent extremist organizations represent a new type of threat 
to the United States and our families, and we must identify how 
existing agencies should work together to address the threat.
  This amendment requires the President to submit a comprehensive 
interagency strategy for countering violent extremist groups that pose 
a threat to American families or their interests. Any plan would 
identify how to counter the violent messaging, combat terrorist 
financing, support existing law enforcement activities, support 
counterradicalization organizations, and offer military support.
  Additionally, the amendment provides for accountability by requiring 
an annual assessment of the progress made implementing and achieving 
the strategy. The time is now to bring a whole-government approach to 
combat violent extremism. This strategy will serve a vital role in this 
effort.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge the passage of this amendment and the en bloc 
package.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I have no other speakers, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. Jenkins).
  Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry 
for yielding me the time.
  Mr. Chair, my amendment proposes to increase the authorized funding 
for the Counterdrug Program by $10 million.
  For 30 years, the National Guard has successfully performed drug 
interdiction and counterdrug activities to support our local 
communities and our national security. The National Guard partners with 
local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies, and community 
organizations to effectively combat the supply and demand for illegal 
drugs. The National Guard Counterdrug Program works.
  In the past 4 years, the West Virginia National Guard successfully 
seized more than $500 million of illegal drugs, black market drugs that 
are devastating our communities and towns. And as our Nation copes with 
the devastating drug epidemic, we must fund programs to stop drug 
trafficking and keep drugs out of our communities.
  For more than a decade, Congress has consistently provided funding 
above the budget request. It is important that we continue that 
support.
  Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry and his hardworking staff that 
helped to make this amendment possible. I urge adoption of this 
amendment.

[[Page H5850]]

  

  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick).
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, perfluorinated compounds, namely PFOA 
and PFOS, have been found in public and private drinking water wells in 
communities surrounding over 600 military installations nationwide, 
including several in my own district, impacting 70,000 Pennsylvanians.
  While the military does not dispute its responsibility for the water 
contamination, the response thus far has been unacceptable. For all of 
our constituents, they all have the right to safe, clean drinking 
water, and they deserve to know if PFOS or PFOA have compromised their 
long-term health.
  The bipartisan amendment I have introduced instructs the Secretary of 
Defense to consult with the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
Registry to carry out a study on any health effects experienced by 
those exposed to PFOS and PFOA at military installations or former 
military installations.
  While this study alone will not fix the serious concerns about water 
contamination, it will provide us with critical information about the 
health impact these unregulated chemicals may have, and aid the Federal 
Government in conjunction with State and local agencies to reverse the 
contamination and protect the health and welfare of our residents.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Poe).
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Thornberry for yielding 
time.
  Mr. Chair, Pakistan has been supporting all kinds of terrorist groups 
for years, including those with American blood on their hands. But 
instead of penalizing Pakistan, the government has been rewarding them 
with hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. aid. Some of that money 
goes to support terrorists.
  Previously, we placed conditions on military aid to Pakistan, but 
these conditions are only focused on Pakistan cracking down on one 
terrorist group, the Haqqani Network. Meanwhile, Pakistan is aiding and 
abetting a long list of terrorists in the region, including the Taliban 
in Afghanistan.

                              {time}  1000

  My amendment No. 100 places a new condition on any aid to Pakistan. 
The condition requires the administration to certify that Pakistan is 
not providing military, financial, or logistical support to any 
terrorists operating in Pakistan or Afghanistan.
  This forces Pakistan to make a long overdue choice: either go after 
terrorists or lose millions of dollars of American aid.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I continue to reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Thornberry for 
his leadership on this matter.
  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization was formed in the ashes of 
World War II, bringing decades of considerable peace and prosperity. 
Still, there are powers today that wish to challenge the order from 
which millions throughout the world have benefited.
  My amendment to the NDAA, amendment No. 98, is a straightforward and 
simple amendment. It would call on all NATO allies to fulfill their 
mutual defense commitments, secure national and regional security 
interests, and recognize our NATO allies who are achieving those 
objectives.
  The underlying bill takes steps to strengthen our national defense on 
many fronts. It improves our overseas contingency operations, provides 
significant resources to rebuild our military, and increases funding 
for initiatives to deter Russian aggression.
  My amendment builds upon those principles. As we begin to rebuild our 
military capability, it is time for our allies to do the same, 
especially when it pertains to our NATO alliance.
  For far too long, the United States has shared an unequal financial 
burden in contributing to the global and regional security that NATO 
provides. With new challenges from an increasing belligerent Russian 
state, instability across the Middle East and North Africa, and 
emerging cybersecurity threats, it is time for all allies to honor 
their commitment and invest in defense spending.
  In order for NATO to be completely effective, all NATO members must 
meet their GDP commitment for defense spending and investment. This is 
out of fairness--for our effort to evenly share this responsibility and 
fairness to American taxpayers.
  My amendment calls on the President to demand that our NATO allies 
honor their mutual defense commitment they agreed to by committing 2 
percent of their gross domestic product to defense spending and 
research and to secure their national and regional security interests. 
Only 5 of 29 member nations currently honor these commitments. While 24 
NATO members fail to meet their NATO commitment, my amendment also 
recognizes the few NATO allies who actually achieve those objectives.
  Full commitment from our NATO allies will make a notable difference 
in our effort to achieve peace around the globe. We must share equally 
the necessary burden of peace through strength.
  The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Scott) will control the time of the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Smith).
  There was no objection.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Congressman Lamborn's 
amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to require the 
President, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the 
Director of National Intelligence to report to Congress on the use of 
commercial aircraft by the Government of Iran for illicit activities. I 
am proud to be the lead Democratic co-sponsor of this bipartisan 
amendment, along with Reps. Lamborn, Roskam, Zeldin, and Sherman.
  As we are all aware, U.S. firms have reached multi-billion-dollar 
agreements to sell or lease hundreds of aircraft to Iran, supposedly to 
help bring the country's fleet into the 21st century. I am deeply 
concerned, however, that these aircraft, intended for civilian use, 
could instead be used for nefarious purposes, such as transporting 
fighters to Syria or weapons to Iran's proxies, Hamas and Hezbollah.
  Iran is the world's leading sponsor of terrorism, with a longstanding 
record of human rights violations. Its support of radical groups 
throughout the Middle East poses a threat both to our greatest ally in 
the region, Israel, and also to U.S. interests.. For this reason, we 
must keep a watchful eye on Iran's actions, including how it uses dual 
use exports from the United States.
  If Iran is indeed only using American-made commercial aircraft for 
legitimate purposes, there should be no concern that a report 
confirming this would have an adverse effect on American trade. If Iran 
is using aircraft to conduct illicit activities, we must be made aware, 
and we must hold Iran accountable.
  I am also proud to have co-sponsored another amendment to the 
National Defense Authorization Act that will help hold Iran accountable 
for it actions. This bipartisan amendment, offered by my Nevada 
colleague, Rep. Kihuen, would extend a presidential reporting 
requirement to ensure that we have an integrated strategy between the 
Administration and Congress to deter Iran's nuclear weapons program.
  Two years ago today, the United States, China, France, Germany, 
Russia, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Iran agreed to the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan Of Action (JCPOA), which aimed to ensure that 
Iran's nuclear program would be exclusively peaceful and that Iran 
would never obtain a nuclear weapon. I was not a Member of Congress 
when the JCPOA came to the floor for Congressional approval, but had I 
been, I would have opposed the agreement. However, I have said since 
before I first came to Congress that now that the JCPOA is the law of 
the land, the United States must demand that Iran abide by it 
completely, and that any cheating or subversion should be dealt with 
swiftly.
  Both the Lamborn and Kihuen Amendments that I have co-sponsored are 
manifestations of this principle. If Iran is directly violating the 
JCPOA by developing a nuclear weapons program, the Administration and 
Congress must be ready to respond. And if Iran is violating

[[Page H5851]]

the spirit of the JCPOA by taking advantage of new streams of commerce 
to wage war in the Middle East, it should not matter what financial 
ties U.S. companies have to the regime.
  For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to vote for the National 
Defense Authorization Act, which includes both the Lamborn and Kihuen 
Amendments.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Armed Services Chairman 
Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith for their support of my amendment 
to direct the Secretary of Defense to report on military cooperation 
between Serbia and Russia. I would also like to thank the gentleman 
from Alabama, Mr. Aderholt, for cosponsoring the amendment.
  Countries of the Balkans are a part of Europe. Period. From the 
former Yugoslavia, three have already entered NATO and two are now part 
of the European Union. In the wider Balkans, even more countries have 
joined NATO and the EU and others want to be part of both . . . . all, 
except for Serbia, that is, which is unwilling to put itself on a path 
to future NATO membership.
  Frankly, Serbia is not only keeping NATO at arms' length. As we 
speak, it is continuing to rearm with Russian weapons. In a deal 
reached on December 21 of last year, Russia agreed to give Serbia six 
surplus MiG-29 `Fulcrum' fighter aircraft, 30 T-72 tanks, and 30 BRDM-2 
armored reconnaissance vehicles. Rather than forcing Belgrade to pay 
for these items worth more than $600 million on the open market, the 
Kremlin just gave them to Belgrade. And, now Serbia is seeking Russian-
made S-300 anti-aircraft missiles. If I were sitting in one of Serbia's 
neighbors, most of which are NATO members, I don't think I would be 
comfortable with Belgrade's tilt toward Moscow.
  Even more, only last month, Serbia joined Russia and Belarus in what 
the countries' called `Slavic Brotherhood' drills very close to NATO-
member Poland. This is only the latest in a series of military 
exercises where Serbian forces are training with Russian troops. 
According to RFE/RL, ``The first were held in 2015 in Russia's 
Krasnodar Krai, which is close to Western-leaning Georgia and Ukraine's 
Russian-controlled Crimean Peninsula. The second were held in November 
2016 in Serbia, while NATO was staging a civil emergency drill in 
neighboring Montenegro.''
  If Serbia wants to become part of the West, this isn't the way to get 
there. Frankly, I'm growing increasingly concerned with the choices 
Belgrade is making on military and security matters. This is why I 
wrote today's amendment. We need to take a closer look at Russian-
Serbian military ties and judge their implications for US national 
security policy, Serbia's membership in NATO's Partnership for Peace, 
and the impact on Serbia's neighbors.
  I know that Vice President Pence is meeting with Serbian President 
Vucic on Monday. This occasion represents a good opportunity to present 
our U.S. concerns about Belgrade's direction on security policy and a 
variety of other matters.
  Mr. Chair, again, I thank the Chairman and Ranking member for their 
support, and I look forward to seeing the report required by the 
amendment.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chair, I am proud to have 
introduced the Apollo I Memorial Amendment to H.R. 2810, the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. This year is the 50th 
Anniversary of the Apollo I spacecraft fire that claimed the lives of 
three American heroes. With this Amendment we ensure that these three 
courageous astronauts, who gave their lives in service to our great 
nation, will be appropriately honored.
  On January 27, 1967, Astronauts Virgil I. ``Gus'' Grissom, Edward H. 
White II, and Roger B. Chaffee were killed in an electrical fire that 
broke out inside their Apollo I Command Module on Launch Pad 34 at the 
Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. The accident led to a 
detailed internal investigation and congressional hearings. As a result 
of their sacrifice, NASA made needed changes to the Apollo program 
which ultimately resulted in the successful Apollo 11 landing on the 
moon two years later.
  My Amendment requires the Secretary of the Army, in consultation with 
the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(NASA), to construct a memorial marker at Arlington National Cemetery 
in their honor. This marker corrects an unfortunate omission, namely, 
that these three fearless astronauts, who were set to be the ones to 
fly the first Apollo mission into space, have not received a memorial 
at Arlington as was done for the Space Shuttle Challenger and Columbia 
crews. As Arlington National Cemetery is where we recognize heroes who 
have passed in the service of our Nation, it is fitting that on the 
50th anniversary of the launchpad accident we acknowledge the sacrifice 
of the Apollo I Astronauts.
  Mr. Chair, it is past time to install a memorial marker at Arlington 
so that current and future Americans never forget their sacrifice as we 
continue to reach for the stars.
  Before closing, I would like to thank my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle who supported the original bill from which this Amendment was 
drawn, H.R. 703, the Apollo Memorial Act. I would also like to express 
my deep appreciation to both Mr. Hollingsworth of Indiana and Mr. Posey 
of Florida who both offered to cosponsor this Amendment.
  I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will continue to come 
together to support this amendment honoring these heroes.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 5 Offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 440, I 
offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 5 consisting of amendment Nos. 92, 93, 94, 95, 
96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, and 107 printed in 
House Report 115-217, offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas:


           amendment no. 92 offered by Mr. Engel of new york

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. NOTICE OF CHANGES TO THE LEGAL AND POLICY 
                   FRAMEWORKS GUIDING THE UNITED STATES' USE OF 
                   MILITARY FORCE AND RELATED NATIONAL SECURITY 
                   OPERATIONS.

       (a) Notice Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     on which a change is made to any of the legal or policy 
     frameworks described in the report entitled ``Report on the 
     Legal and Policy Frameworks Guiding the United States Use of 
     Military Force and Related National Security Operations'' 
     prepared by the national security departments and agencies 
     and published on December 5, 2016, the President shall notify 
     the appropriate congressional committees of such change, 
     including the legal, factual, and policy justification for 
     such change.
       (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
       (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;
       (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives; and
       (4) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.


         amendment no. 93 offered by Mr. Ted Lieu of california

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTION OF SAUDI ARABIA AND ITS 
                   COALITIONS PARTNERS IN YEMEN.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly 
     submit the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
     military action of Saudi Arabia and its coalitions partners 
     in Yemen.
       (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by 
     subsection (a) shall include a description of the following:
       (1) The extent to which the Government of Saudi Arabia and 
     its coalition partners in Yemen are abiding by their ``No 
     Strike List and Restricted Target List''.
       (2) Roles played by United States military personnel with 
     respect to operations of such coalition partners in Yemen.
       (3) Progress made by the Government of Saudi Arabia in 
     improving its targeting capabilities.
       (4) Progress made by such coalition partners to implement 
     the recommendations of the Joint Incident Assessment Team and 
     participation if any by the United States in the 
     implementation of such recommendations.
       (5) Progress made toward implementation of United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2216 (2015) or any successor 
     United Nations Security Council resolution relating to the 
     conflict in Yemen.
       (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Termination.--This section shall terminate on--
       (1) the date that is 2 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, or

[[Page H5852]]

       (2) the date on which the Secretary of Defense and 
     Secretary of State jointly certify to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that the conflict in Yemen has come 
     to a conclusion,

     whichever occurs earlier.
       (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (1) the congressional defense committees; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.


          amendment no. 94 offered by Mr. crowley of new york

       Page 525, line 19, strike the period and insert ``, 
     including respect for human rights.''.


         amendment no. 95 offered by Mr. gallagher of wisconsin

       At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. ASSESSMENT ON UNITED STATES DEFENSE IMPLICATIONS OF 
                   CHINA'S EXPANDING GLOBAL ACCESS.

       (a) Assessment.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, shall assess the foreign 
     military and non-military activities of the People's Republic 
     of China which could affect the regional and global national 
     security and defense interests of the United States.
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) 
     shall evaluate the following:
       (A) China's use of military and non-military means in the 
     Indo-Asia-Pacific region and globally, including tourism, 
     media, influence campaigns, investment projects, 
     infrastructure, and access to foreign ports and military 
     bases, and whether such means could affect United States 
     national security or defense interests, including operational 
     access.
       (B) The implications, if any, of such means for the 
     military force posture, access, training, and logistics of 
     both the United States and China.
       (C) The United States strategy and policy for mitigating 
     any harmful effects resulting from such means.
       (D) The resources required to implement such strategy and 
     policy, and the mitigation plan to address any gaps in 
     capabilities or resources necessary for such implementation.
       (E) Measures to bolster the roles of allies, partners, and 
     other countries to implement such strategy and policy.
       (F) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense or the 
     Secretary of State determines to be appropriate.
       (3) Report required.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
     of the House of Representatives a report on the assessment 
     required under subsection (b).
       (B) Form.--The report required by this paragraph may be 
     submitted unclassified or classified form.


            amendment no. 96 offered by Mr. yoho of florida

       At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 12__. NORMALIZING THE TRANSFER OF DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
                   DEFENSE SERVICES TO TAIWAN.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     any requests from the Government of Taiwan for defense 
     articles and defense services should receive a case-by-case 
     review by the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, that is consistent with the standard 
     processes and procedures in an effort to normalize the arms 
     sales process with Taiwan.
       (b) Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
     which the Secretary of Defense receives a Letter of Request 
     from Taiwan with respect to the transfer of a defense article 
     or defense service to Taiwan, the Secretary, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report that includes--
       (A) the status of such request;
       (B) if the transfer of such article or service would 
     require a certification or report to Congress pursuant to any 
     applicable provision of section 36 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 2776), the status of any Letter of Offer and 
     Acceptance the Secretary of Defense intends to issue with 
     respect to such request; and
       (C) an assessment of whether the transfer of such article 
     or service would be consistent with United States obligations 
     under the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 
     3301 et seq.).
       (2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) 
     shall specify the following:
       (A) The date the Secretary of Defense received the Letter 
     of Request.
       (B) The value of the sale proposed by such Letter of 
     Request.
       (C) A description of the defense article or defense service 
     proposed to be transferred.
       (D) The view of the Secretary of Defense with respect to 
     such proposed sale and whether such sale would be consistent 
     with defense plans.
       (3) Form.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
     Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
     State, shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
     congressional committees with respect to the security 
     challenges faced by Taiwan and the military cooperation 
     between the United States and Taiwan, including a description 
     of any requests from Taiwan for the transfer of defense 
     articles or defense services and the status, whether signed 
     or unsigned, of any Letters of Offer and Acceptance with 
     respect to such requests.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.
       (2) Defense article; defense service.--The terms ``defense 
     article'' and ``defense service'' have the meanings given 
     such terms in section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
     U.S.C. 2794).
       (3) Letter of request; letter of offer and acceptance.--The 
     terms ``Letter of Request'' and ``Letter of Offer and 
     Acceptance'' have the meanings given such terms for purposes 
     of Chapter 5 of the Security Assistance Management Manual of 
     the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, as in effect on the 
     date of the enactment of this Act.


        amendment no. 97 offered by Mr. duncan of south carolina

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 12__. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 
                   REGION.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the security, stability, and prosperity of the Western 
     Hemisphere region are vital to the national interests of the 
     United States;
       (2) the United States should maintain a military capability 
     in the Western Hemisphere region that is able to project 
     power, build partner capacity, deter acts of aggression, and 
     respond, if necessary, to regional threats or to threats to 
     the national security of the United States by the activities 
     of Iran, China, Russia, North Korea, transnational criminal 
     organizations, or terrorist organizations in the region;
       (3) continuing efforts by the Department of Defense to 
     commit additional assets and increase investments to the 
     Western Hemisphere are necessary to maintain a robust United 
     States commitment to the region;
       (4) the Secretary of Defense should--
       (A) assess the current United States force posture in the 
     Western Hemisphere to ensure that the United States maintains 
     an appropriate forward presence in the region;
       (B) prioritize--
       (i) intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance;
       (ii) maritime patrol aircraft to support detection and 
     monitoring missions;
       (iii) efforts to disrupt and degrade transregional and 
     transnational threat networks; and
       (iv) when possible, efforts to support the mission of the 
     Department of Homeland Security, as requested, in monitoring 
     individuals identified by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     as ``special interest aliens'' or as ``foreign terrorist 
     fighters''; and
       (C) enhance regional force readiness through joint training 
     and exercises; and
       (5) the United States should continue to engage in the 
     Western Hemisphere by strengthening alliances and 
     partnerships, working with regional institutions, addressing 
     the shared challenges of illicit trafficking of humans, 
     drugs, and other contraband, transnational criminal 
     organizations, and foreign terrorist fighters, and supporting 
     the rule of law and democracy in the region.


           amendment no. 98 offered by Mr. bishop of michigan

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following:

     SEC. 12__. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO INCREASES IN DEFENSE 
                   CAPABILITIES OF UNITED STATES ALLIES.

       It is the sense of Congress that the President, in 
     furtherance of increased unity, equitable sharing of the 
     common defense burden, and international stability, should--
       (1) encourage all member countries of the North Atlantic 
     Treaty Organization (``NATO allies'') to fulfill their 
     commitments to levels and composition of defense expenditures 
     as agreed upon at the NATO 2014 Wales Summit and NATO 2016 
     Warsaw Summit;
       (2) call on NATO allies to finance, equip, and train their 
     armed forces to fulfill their national and regional security 
     interests; and
       (3) recognize NATO allies that are meeting their defense 
     spending commitments or otherwise providing adequately for 
     their national and regional security interests.


         amendment no. 99 offered by Mr. kelly of pennsylvania

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12XX. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT 
                   THE ARMS TRADE TREATY.

       (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be 
     appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be 
     obligated or expended to fund a Secretariat or any

[[Page H5853]]

     other international organization established to support the 
     implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty, to sustain domestic 
     prosecutions based on any charge related to the Treaty, or to 
     implement the Treaty until the Senate approves a resolution 
     of ratification for the Treaty and implementing legislation 
     for the Treaty has been enacted into law.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to preclude the Department of Defense from 
     assisting foreign countries in bringing their laws, 
     regulations, and practices related to export control up to 
     United States standards.


           amendment no. 100 offered by Mr. engel of new york

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. CULTURAL HERITAGE PROTECTION COORDINATOR.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     designate an employee of the Department of Defense to serve 
     concurrently as the Coordinator for Cultural Heritage 
     Protection (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Coordinator'').
       (b) Duties.--The Coordinator shall have the following 
     duties:
       (1) The Coordinator shall be responsible for coordinating 
     existing obligations of the Department of Defense for the 
     protection of cultural heritage, including the 1954 Hague 
     Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the 
     Event of Armed Conflict, and other obligations for the 
     protection of cultural heritage.
       (2) The Coordinator shall convene a coordinating committee 
     of entities within the Department of Defense that have the 
     responsibility or capacity for protecting cultural heritage.
       (c) Coordinating Committee.--The coordinating committee 
     convened pursuant to subsection (b)(2) shall--
       (1) meet not less than annually;
       (2) coordinate with the Cultural Heritage Coordinating 
     Committee convened by the Department of State; and
       (3) solicit consultation and coordination with other 
     Federal agencies and nongovernmental organizations, including 
     the U.S. Committee of the Blue Shield, as well as other 
     expert and stakeholder organizations, as appropriate for the 
     national security interests of the United States.


            amendment no. 101 offered by Mr. soto of florida

       At the end of subtitle B of title XVI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 1623. REPORT ON SPACE-BASED NUCLEAR DETECTION.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman 
     of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of Energy, and 
     the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, 
     and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate a 
     report on space-based nuclear detection.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include, at a minimum, the following:
       (1) A description of the space-based nuclear detection 
     program (including the space-based atmospheric burst 
     reporting system).
       (2) The strategic plan, including with respect to current 
     and planned space platforms, to host the relevant payloads 
     for such program.
       (3) The current and planned national security requirements 
     for space-based nuclear detection, including--
       (A) an attribution of such requirements to specific 
     missions of the departments and agencies of the Federal 
     Government; and
       (B) how such requirements compare to past requirements.
       (4) How current and future funding for the space-based 
     nuclear detection program is being provided by each such 
     department or agency to meet each mission requirement.
       (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.


      amendment no. 102 offered by Mr. fitzpatrick of pennsylvania

       At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 16__. DEFINITION OF DETERRENCE IN THE CONTEXT OF CYBER 
                   OPERATIONS.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
       (1) develop a definition of the term ``deterrence'' as such 
     term is used in the context of the cyber operations of the 
     Department of Defense; and
       (2) assess how the definition developed under paragraph (1) 
     affects the overall cyber strategy of the Department.
       (b) Inclusion of Other Activities.--The definition of the 
     term ``deterrence'' developed under subsection (a) may 
     include activities, capability efforts, and operations other 
     than cyber activities, cyber capability efforts, and cyber 
     operations.


           amendment no. 103 offered by Mr. franks of arizona

       Page 687, line 13, strike ``Tamir interceptors'' and all 
     that follows through ``such interceptors'' on line 15 and 
     insert ``system components for the Iron Dome Defense short-
     range rocket defense program, through the coproduction of 
     such system components''.
       Page 689, line 6, strike ``to procure'' and all that 
     follows through ``System,'' on line 7 and insert ``for the 
     David's Sling Weapon System Program, of which not more than 
     $120,000,000 may be used to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
     System,''.
       Page 689, line 11, strike ``for the'' and all that follows 
     through ``Program,'' on line 12 and insert ``for the Arrow 
     Weapon System, including the Arrow 3 Upper Tier System, of 
     which not more than $120,000,000 may be used to procure the 
     Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor System,''


          amendment no. 104 offered by Mr. lamborn of colorado

       At the end of subtitle F of title XVI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 1694. BOOST PHASE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE.

       (a) Initial Operational Deployment.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall ensure that an effective interim kinetic or 
     directed energy boost phase ballistic missile defense 
     capability is available for initial operational deployment 
     not later than December 31, 2020.
       (b) Plan.--Together with the budget of the President 
     submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     a plan to achieve the requirement in subsection (a). Such 
     plan shall include--
       (1) the budget requirements;
       (2) a robust test schedule;
       (3) a plan to develop an enduring boost phase ballistic 
     missile defense capability, including cost and test schedule.


            amendment no. 105 offered by Mr. young of alaska

       Add at the end of title XVI the following new subtitle:

      Subtitle H--Advancing America's Missile Defense Act of 2017

     SEC. 1699D. SHORT TITLE.

       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Advancing America's 
     Missile Defense Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1699E. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CURRENT STATE OF UNITED 
                   STATES MISSILE DEFENSE, FUTURE INVESTMENT, AND 
                   ACCELERATING CAPABILITIES TO OUTPACE CURRENT 
                   THREATS.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Secretary of Defense should use the upcoming Ballistic 
     Missile Defense Review (BMDR) and the Missile Defeat Review 
     (MDR) to accelerate the development of new and existing means 
     to sustain and increase the capacity, capability, and 
     reliability of the ground-based midcourse defense element of 
     the ballistic missile defense system and other missile 
     defense programs.
       (b) Acceleration of Development of Certain Advanced Missile 
     Defense Technologies Toward Fielding.--
       (1) In general.--To the degree practicable, the Director of 
     the Missile Defense Agency shall use the policies of the 
     Department of Defense to accelerate the development, testing, 
     and fielding of the redesigned kill vehicle, the multi-object 
     kill vehicle, the C3 booster, a space-based sensor layer, an 
     airborne laser on unmanned aerial vehicles, and a potential 
     additional missile defense site, including the completion of 
     any outstanding environmental impact statements (EISs) for an 
     additional missile defense site on the East Coast or in the 
     Midwest regions of the United States.
       (2) Priority.--The Director shall prioritize the 
     development of capabilities listed in paragraph (1) subject 
     to annual authorization and appropriation of funding.
       (3) Development.--The Director shall use sound acquisition 
     processes and program management to develop the capabilities 
     set forth in paragraph (1).

     SEC. 1699F. AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE CURRENT GROUND-BASED 
                   MIDCOURSE DEFENSE CAPACITY BY 28 GROUND-BASED 
                   INTERCEPTORS.

       (a) Increase in Capacity.--The Secretary of Defense shall, 
     subject to the annual authorization of appropriations and the 
     annual appropriation of funds for National Missile Defense, 
     increase the number of United States ground-based 
     interceptors by up to 28.
       (b) Report to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Unless otherwise directed or recommended 
     by the BMDR, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report on infrastructure requirements and costs associated to 
     increase the number of ground-based interceptors at Missile 
     Field 1 and Missile Field 2 at Fort Greely to 20 ground-based 
     interceptors each.
       (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) An analysis of the strategic, operational, and tactical 
     benefits of adding additional ground-based interceptors at 
     each missile field.
       (B) A detailed description of the infrastructure needed and 
     costs associated with expanding each missile field.
       (C) An identification of any environmental, technical, or 
     logistical barriers to expanding each missile field.
       (D) Any analysis of alternatively using Missile Field 4 and 
     Missile Field 5 to increase the number of ground-based 
     interceptors.
       (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

[[Page H5854]]

  


     SEC. 1699G. MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY REPORT ON INCREASING 
                   NUMBER OF GROUND-BASED INTERCEPTORS UP TO 100.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it 
     is the policy of the United States to maintain and improve, 
     with the allies of the United States, an effective, robust 
     layered missile defense system capable of defending the 
     citizens of the United States residing in territories and 
     States of the United States, allies of the United States, and 
     deployed Armed Forces of the United States.
       (b) Report to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Unless otherwise directed or recommended 
     by the BMDR, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     report on the costs and benefits of increasing the capacity 
     of the ground-based midcourse defense element of the 
     ballistic missile defense system.
       (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) An identification of potential sites--new or existing--
     to allow for the increase of up to 100 ground-based 
     interceptors.
       (B) An analysis of the strategic, operational, tactical, 
     and cost benefits of each site.
       (C) A description of any environmental, legal, or tactical 
     challenges associated with each site.
       (D) A detailed description of the infrastructure needed and 
     costs associated with each site.
       (E) A summary of any completed or outstanding environmental 
     impact statements (EIS) on each site.
       (F) An operational evaluation and cost analysis of the 
     deployment of transportable ground-based interceptors, 
     including an identification of potential sites, including in 
     the eastern United States and at Vandenberg Air Force Base, 
     and an examination of any environmental, legal, or tactical 
     challenges associated with such deployments, including to any 
     sites identified in subparagraph (A).
       (G) A determination of the appropriate fleet mix of ground-
     based interceptor kill vehicles and boosters to maximize 
     overall system effectiveness and increase its capacity and 
     capability, including the costs and benefits of continued 
     inclusion of capability enhancement II (CE-II) Block 1 
     interceptors after the fielding of the redesigned kill 
     vehicle.
       (H) A description of the planned improvements to homeland 
     ballistic missile defense sensor and discrimination 
     capabilities and an assessment of the expected operational 
     benefits of such improvements to homeland ballistic missile 
     defense.
       (I) The costs and benefits of supplementing ground-based 
     midcourse defense elements with other, more distributed, 
     elements, including both Aegis ships and Aegis Ashore 
     installations with Standard Missile-3 Block IIA and other 
     interceptors in Hawaii and at other locations for homeland 
     missile defense.
       (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 1699H. EVALUATION AND EVOLUTION OF TERRESTRIAL GROUND-
                   BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SENSORS.

       (a) Report to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Unless otherwise directed or recommended 
     by the BMDR, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency, in coordination with the Secretary of the Air Force, 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on the status of the integrated layers of missile defense 
     radars.
       (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A detailed analysis of the expected improvements 
     resulting from the integration of the Long Range 
     Discrimination Radar into the missile defense system 
     architecture of the United States, including--
       (i) any adjustments to homeland missile defense tactics, 
     techniques, and procedures;
       (ii) possible adjustments to ground-based midcourse defense 
     shot-doctrine and required interceptor capacity;
       (iii) possibilities for direct integration with Fort 
     Greely's Command and Control node; and
       (iv) impacts on regional missile defense systems including 
     Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, Aegis Ashore, and Terminal 
     High Altitude Area Defense.
       (B) A detailed comparison of the capabilities of Long Range 
     Discrimination Radar and the COBRA DANE radar, including--
       (i) the unique capabilities of each radar;
       (ii) the overlapping capabilities of each radar; and
       (iii) the advantages and disadvantages of each radar's 
     location.
       (C) A modernization plan and costs for the long-term 
     continued operations and maintenance of the COBRA DANE radar 
     or a plan to replace its capability if COBRA DANE cannot 
     remain operational, and the costs associated with each plan.
       (b) Assessment by Comptroller General of the United 
     States.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
     Director submits the report under subsection (a)(1), the 
     Comptroller General of the United States shall--
       (1) complete a review of the plan required by subsection 
     (a)(2)(C); and
       (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
     on such review that includes the findings and recommendations 
     of the Comptroller General.
       (c) Form.--The reports submitted subsections (a) and (b) 
     shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
     classified annex.

     SEC. 1699I. AUTHORIZATION FOR MORE GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE 
                   DEFENSE TESTING.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) at a minimum, the Missile Defense Agency should 
     continue to flight test the ground-based midcourse defense 
     element at least once each fiscal year;
       (2) the Department of Defense should allocate increased 
     funding to homeland missile defense testing to ensure that 
     our defenses continue to evolve faster than the threats 
     against which they are postured to defend while pursuing a 
     robust acquisition process;
       (3) in order to rapidly innovate, develop, and field new 
     technologies, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
     should continue to focus testing campaigns on delivering 
     increased capabilities to the Armed Forces as quickly as 
     possible; and
       (4) the Director of the Missile Defense Agency should seek 
     to establish a more prudent balance between risk mitigation 
     and the more rapid testing pace needed to quickly develop and 
     deliver new capabilities to the Armed Forces.
       (b) Report to Congress.--
       (1) In general.--Unless otherwise directed or recommended 
     by the BMDR, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
     Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
     revised missile defense testing campaign plan that 
     accelerates the development and deployment of new missile 
     defense technologies.
       (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A detailed analysis of the costs and benefits of 
     accelerating each following programs:
       (i) Redesigned kill vehicle.
       (ii) Multi-object kill vehicle.
       (iii) Configuration-3 booster.
       (iv) Lasers mounted on small unmanned aerial vehicles.
       (v) Space-based missile defense sensor architecture.
       (vi) Such additional technologies as the Director considers 
     appropriate.
       (B) A new deployment timeline for each of the programs in 
     listed in subparagraph (A) or a detailed description of why 
     the current timeline for deployment technologies under those 
     programs is most suitable.
       (C) An identification of any funding or policy restrictions 
     that would slow down the deployment of the technologies under 
     the programs listed in subparagraph (A).
       (D) A risk assessment of the potential cost-overruns and 
     deployment delays that may be encountered in the expedited 
     development process of the capabilities under paragraph (1).
       (c) Report on Funding Profile.--The Director shall include 
     with the budget justification materials submitted to Congress 
     in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018 (as submitted with the budget of the 
     President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
     Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the new 
     testing campaign plan required by subsection (b)(1).


         amendment no. 106 offered by Mr. hunter of california

       Page 711, beginning line 3, strike ``Except as provided in 
     subsection (b), the'' and insert ``The''.
       Page 711, strike lines 7 through 15 and insert the 
     following:
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Service Acquisition 
     Executive responsible for each covered Distributed Common 
     Ground System shall certify to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that the procurement process for increments of the 
     system procured after the date of the enactment of this Act 
     will be carried out in accordance with section 2377 of title 
     10, United States Code.


           amendment no. 107 offered by Mr. rogers of alabama

       At the end of title XXII, add the following new section:

     SEC. 2207. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
                   FISCAL YEAR 2016 PROJECT.

       In the case of the authorization contained in the table in 
     section 2201(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
     1150) for construction of an Aegis Ashore Missile Defense 
     Complex at RedziKowo Base, Poland, the Secretary of the Navy 
     may construct a 6,180 square meter multipurpose facility, for 
     the purposes of providing additional berthing space, using 
     amounts available for the project pursuant to the 
     authorization of appropriations in section 2204 of such Act.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Smith) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I inform my friend from Washington I 
have no speakers on this en bloc package, and I reserve the balance of 
my time.

[[Page H5855]]

  

  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I don't have any speakers 
either, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I urge support, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


      Amendments En Bloc No. 6 Offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 440, I 
offer amendments en bloc.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
  Amendments en bloc No. 6 consisting of amendment Nos. 108, 109, 110, 
111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, and 121 printed in 
House Report 115-217, offered by Mr. Thornberry of Texas:


           amendment no. 108 Offered by Mr. Simpson of Idaho

       Insert after section 2822 the following new section (and 
     redesignate the succeeding provisions accordingly):

     SEC. 2823. LAND CONVEYANCE, MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE, 
                   IDAHO.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey to the City of Mountain Home, Idaho (in this 
     section referred to as the ``City'') all right, title, and 
     interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property, including improvements thereon, consisting of 
     approximately 4.25 miles of railroad spur located near 
     Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, as further described in 
     subsection (c), for the purpose of economic development.
       (b) Consideration.--
       (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the land 
     conveyed under subsection (a), the City shall pay to the 
     Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
     land, as determined by an appraisal approved by the 
     Secretary. The City shall provide an amount that is 
     acceptable to the Secretary, whether by cash payment, in-kind 
     consideration as described under paragraph (2), or a 
     combination thereof.
       (2) In-kind consideration.--In-kind consideration provided 
     by the City under paragraph (1) may include the acquisition, 
     construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or 
     restoration (including environmental restoration), or 
     combination thereof, of any facility or infrastructure under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
       (3) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration in 
     the form of cash payment received by the Secretary under 
     paragraph (1) shall be deposited in the separate fund in the 
     Treasury described in section 572(a)(1) of title 40, United 
     States Code.
       (c) Map and Legal Description.--
       (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force 
     shall publish a final map and legal description of the 
     property to be conveyed under subsection (a), except that the 
     Secretary may correct minor errors in the map and legal 
     description after its initial publication.
       (2) Availability.--The map and legal description under this 
     subsection shall be on file and available for public 
     inspection.
       (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     require the City to cover the costs to be incurred by the 
     Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for the costs 
     incurred by the Secretary, in carrying out the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), including survey costs, the costs of 
     environmental documentation, and other administrative costs 
     relating to the conveyance (other than costs for 
     environmental remediation of the property conveyed). If 
     amounts are collected from the City in advance of the 
     Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount 
     collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall 
     refund the excess amount to the City.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
     paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) 
     shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to 
     cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
     conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for 
     the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
     limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
       (e) Reservation of Use by Secretary.--After the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), the City shall allow the Secretary of 
     the Air Force to temporarily use, for urgent reasons of 
     national defense and at no cost to the Secretary, all or a 
     portion of the property conveyed under subsection (a).
       (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Air Force may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.


            amendment no. 109 Offered by Mr. Bishop of Utah

       Insert after section 2825 the following new section (and 
     redesignate the succeeding sections accordingly):

     SEC. 2826. REMOVAL OF CERTAIN DEED RESTRICTIONS AND 
                   REVERSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH CONVEYANCE OF 
                   PROPERTY OF FORMER DEFENSE DEPOT OGDEN, UTAH.

       (a) Negotiations to Remove Restrictions and Reversions.--As 
     soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into 
     negotiations with the City of Ogden, Utah, and Weber County, 
     Utah, on agreements to remove deed restrictions and 
     reversionary provisions on the remaining property of the 
     former Defense Depot Ogden.
       (b) Contents of Agreement.--The agreements entered into 
     pursuant to subsection (a) shall include such terms and 
     conditions as may be agreed to by the Secretary of the 
     Interior and the City of Ogden and Weber County (as the case 
     may be), except that the following terms and conditions shall 
     apply:
       (1) The Secretary may not remove the deed restrictions and 
     reversionary provisions on the property of the former Defense 
     Depot Ogden until there is a ratified agreement between the 
     Secretary and the City of Ogden or Weber County (as the case 
     may be) to encumber other specific properties owned by the 
     City or County with the same appropriate reversionary 
     interests in favor of the United States as are in effect with 
     respect to the property of the former Defense Depot Ogden as 
     of the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (2) The properties of the City of Ogden or Weber County (as 
     the case may be) that are encumbered pursuant to paragraph 
     (1) shall have approximately equal value to the property of 
     the former Defense Depot Ogden for which the deed 
     restrictions and reversionary provisions are removed under 
     the agreement.
       (3) The City of Ogden and Weber County shall pay the costs 
     (except any costs for environmental remediation of the 
     property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse 
     the Secretary for such reasonable and customary 
     administrative expenses incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
     out the agreement with respect to the City or County (as the 
     case may be), including survey and appraisal costs. If 
     amounts are collected from the City of Ogden or Weber County 
     in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and 
     the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by 
     the Secretary to carry out the agreement with respect to the 
     City or County, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount 
     to the City or County.


          amendment no. 110 Offered by Mrs. Bustos of Illinois

       Add at the end of subtitle B of title XXVIII the following:

     SEC. 28__. CERTIFICATION RELATED TO CERTAIN ACQUISITIONS OR 
                   LEASES OF REAL PROPERTY.

       Section 2662(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting the following: ``, as well as the certification 
     described in paragraph (5).''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) For purposes of paragraph (2), the certification 
     described in this paragraph with respect to an acquisition or 
     lease of real property is a certification that the Secretary 
     concerned--
       ``(A) evaluated the feasibility of using space in property 
     under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense to 
     satisfy the purposes of the acquisition or lease; and
       ``(B) determined that--
       ``(i) space in property under the jurisdiction of the 
     Department of Defense is not reasonably available to be used 
     to satisfy the purposes of the acquisition or lease;
       ``(ii) acquiring the property or entering into the lease 
     would be more cost-effective than the use of the Department 
     of Defense property; or
       ``(iii) the use of the Department of Defense property would 
     interfere with the ongoing military mission of the 
     property.''.


           amendment no. 111 Offered by Mr. Brat of Virginia

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXVIII (page 854, after 
     line 24), add the following:

     SEC. 2818. IMPROVED PROCESS FOR DISPOSAL OF DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY LOCATED OVERSEAS.

       (a) Petition to Acquire Surplus Property.--2687a of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(g) Petition Process for Disposal of Overseas Surplus 
     Real Property.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
     a process by which a foreign government may request the 
     transfer of surplus real property or improvements under the 
     jurisdiction of the Department of Defense in the foreign 
     country.
       ``(2) Upon the receipt of a petition under this subsection, 
     the Secretary shall determine within 90 days whether the 
     property or improvement subject to the petition is surplus. 
     If surplus, the Secretary shall seek to enter into an 
     agreement with the foreign government within one year for the 
     disposal of the property.
       ``(3) If real property or an improvement is determined not 
     to be surplus, the Secretary

[[Page H5856]]

     shall not be obligated to consider another petition involving 
     the same property or improvement for five years beginning on 
     the date on which the initial determination was made.''.
       (b) Additional Use of Department of Defense Overseas 
     Military Facility Investment Recovery Account.--Section 
     2687a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``property disposal 
     agreement,'' after ``forces agreement,''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (A);
       (B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(C) military readiness programs.''.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--Section 2687a(a) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(3) A report under paragraph (1) also shall specify the 
     following:
       ``(A) The number of petitions received under subsection (g) 
     from foreign governments requesting the transfer of surplus 
     real property or improvements under the jurisdiction of the 
     Department of Defense overseas.
       ``(B) The status of each petition, including whether 
     reviewed, denied, or granted.
       ``(C) The implementation status of each granted 
     petition.''.


        amendment no. 112 Offered by Mr. Rice of South Carolina

       Add at the end of subtitle G of title XXVIII the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 2863. PERMITTING MACHINE ROOM-LESS ELEVATORS IN 
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue 
     modifications to all relevant construction and facilities 
     specifications to ensure that machine room-less elevators 
     (MRLs) are not prohibited in buildings and facilities 
     throughout the Department of Defense, including modifications 
     to the Unified Facilities Guide Specifications (UFGS), the 
     Naval Facilities Engineering Command Interim Technical 
     Guidance, and the Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and 
     Construction Bulletin.
       (b) Conforming to Best Practices.--In addition to the 
     modifications required under subsection (a), the Secretary 
     may issue further modifications to conform generally with 
     commercial best practices as reflected in the safety code for 
     elevators and escalators as issued by the American Society of 
     Mechanical Engineers.
       (c) Deadlines.--The Secretary shall promulgate interim MRL 
     standards not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and shall issue final and formal MRL 
     specifications not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a report to 
     the congressional defense committees on the integration and 
     utilization of MRLs, including information on quantity, 
     location, problems, and successes.


      amendment no. 113 Offered by Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 3124. PLUTONIUM CAPABILITIES.

       (a) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
     Secretary of Defense, and the Comptroller General of the 
     United States a report on the recommended alternative 
     endorsed by the Administrator for recapitalization of 
     plutonium science and production capabilities of the nuclear 
     security enterprise. The report shall identify the 
     recommended alternative endorsed by the Administrator and 
     contain the analysis of alternatives, including costs, upon 
     which the Administrator relied in making such endorsement.
       (b) Certification.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
     on which the Secretary of Defense receives the notification 
     under subsection (a), the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons 
     Council shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
     the written certification of the Chairman regarding whether 
     the recommended alternative endorsed by the Administrator--
       (1) is acceptable to the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Nuclear Weapons Council and meets the requirements of the 
     Secretary for plutonium pit production capacity and 
     capability;
       (2) is likely to meet the pit production timelines and 
     milestones required by section 4219 of the Atomic Energy 
     Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a);
       (3) is likely to meet pit production timelines and 
     requirements responsive to military requirements;
       (4) is cost effective and has reasonable near-term and 
     lifecycle costs that are minimized, to the extent 
     practicable, as compared to other alternatives, and has 
     tested and documented the sensitivity of the cost estimates 
     for each alternative to risks and changes in key assumptions;
       (5) contains minimized and manageable risks as compared to 
     other alternatives;
       (6) can be acceptably reconciled with any differences in 
     the conclusions made by the Office of Cost Assessment and 
     Program Evaluation of the Department of Defense in the 
     business case analysis of plutonium pit production capability 
     issued in 2013; and
       (7) has documented the assumptions and constraints used in 
     the analysis of alternatives.
       (c) Failure to Certify.--If the Chairman is unable to 
     submit the certification under subsection (b), the Chairman 
     shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
     Administrator written notification describing why the 
     Chairman is unable to make such certification and what steps 
     the Administrator should take to improve the plan of the 
     Administrator to recapitalize plutonium pit production 
     capacity and capability to enable certification.
       (d) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
     which the Comptroller General receives the notification under 
     subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall provide to the 
     congressional defense committees a briefing containing the 
     assessment of the Comptroller General of the analysis of 
     alternatives conducted by the Administrator to select a 
     preferred alternative for recapitalizing plutonium science 
     and production capabilities.


         amendment no. 114 Offered by Mr. Larsen of Washington

       At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 3124. PLAN FOR VERIFICATION, DETECTION, AND MONITORING 
                   OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND FISSILE MATERIAL.

       (a) Findings and Sense of Congress.--
       (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (A) A January 2014 Defense Science Board report found that 
     ``The nuclear future will not be a linear extrapolation of 
     the past. . . [and] [t]he technologies and processes designed 
     for current treaty verification and inspections are 
     inadequate to future monitoring realities''.
       (B) Section 3133 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
     McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     2015 (Public Law 113-291) required an interagency plan for 
     nuclear monitoring of nuclear weapons and fissile material, 
     and section 3132 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) required an update 
     of such plan. In both instances, the reports submitted failed 
     to answer the congressional requirements, and instead 
     provided only a brief summary of the National Security 
     Council structure and processes.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     verification, detection, and monitoring of nuclear weapons 
     and fissile material should be a priority for national 
     security, and that the reports submitted to date do not 
     reflect this priority, or the current and planned initiatives 
     related to nuclear verification and detection.
       (b) Plan.--The President, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
     of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
     Director of National Intelligence, shall develop a plan for 
     verification and monitoring relating to the potential 
     proliferation of nuclear weapons, components of such weapons, 
     and fissile material.
       (c) Elements.--The plan developed under subsection (b) 
     shall include the following:
       (1) A plan and road map for verification, detection and 
     monitoring, with respect to policy, operations, and research, 
     development, testing, and evaluation, including--
       (A) identifying requirements;
       (B) costs and funding requirements over 10 years for such 
     nuclear verification, detection and monitoring; and
       (C) identifying and integrating roles, responsibilities, 
     and planning for such nuclear verification, detection and 
     monitoring.
       (2) A detailed international engagement plan for building 
     cooperation and transparency, including bilateral and 
     multilateral efforts, to improve inspections, detection, and 
     monitoring.
       (3) A detailed description of--
       (A) current and planned research and development efforts to 
     improve monitoring, detection, and in-field inspection and 
     analysis capabilities, including persistent surveillance, 
     remote monitoring, and rapid analysis of large data sets, 
     including open-source data; and
       (B) measures to coordinate technical and operational 
     requirements early in the process.
       (4) Engagement of relevant departments and agencies of the 
     Federal Government and the military departments (including 
     the Open Source Center and the United States Atomic Energy 
     Detection System), national laboratories, industry, and 
     academia.
       (d) Designation of DOE.--The President shall designate the 
     Department of Energy as the lead agency for development of 
     the plan under subsection (b).
       (e) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, acting 
     through the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall provide 
     to the appropriate congressional committees an interim 
     briefing on the plan under subsection (b).
       (f) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 
     for the Department of Defense for supporting the Executive 
     Office of the President, $10,000,000 may not be obligated or 
     expended until the date on which the President submits to the 
     appropriate congressional committees the plan under 
     subsection (g)(1).
       (g) Submission.--

[[Page H5857]]

       (1) Deadline.--Not later than April 15, 2018, the President 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
     plan developed under subsection (b).
       (2) Form.--The plan under subsection (b) shall be 
     transmitted in unclassified form, but, consistent with the 
     protection of intelligence sources and methods, may include a 
     classified annex.
       (h) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means the following:
       (1) The congressional defense committees.
       (2) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
     the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (3) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (4) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security 
     of the House of Representatives.
       (5) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
     House of Representatives.


        amendment no. 115 Offered by Mr. Carbajal of California

       At the end of subtitle C of title XXXI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 3139. PLAN TO FURTHER MINIMIZE THE USE OF HIGHLY 
                   ENRICHED URANIUM FOR MEDICAL ISOTOPES.

       (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with 
     the Secretary of State, shall develop and assess a plan, 
     including with respect to the benefits, risks, costs, and 
     opportunities of the plan, to--
       (1) take additional actions to promote the wider 
     utilization of molybdenum-99 and technetium-99m produced 
     without the use of highly enriched uranium targets, such as, 
     at a minimum, by--
       (A) eliminating the availability of highly enriched uranium 
     for Mo-99 by buying back U.S.-origin highly enriched uranium 
     in raw or target form from global Mo-99 suppliers; and
       (B) restricting or placing financial penalties on the 
     import of Mo-99 produced with highly enriched uranium 
     targets;
       (2) work with global molybdenum suppliers and regulators to 
     reduce the proliferation hazard from reprocessing waste from 
     medical isotope production containing U.S.-origin highly 
     enriched uranium; and
       (3) ensure an adequate supply of molybdenum-99 and 
     technetium-99 at all times, and both assess and mitigate any 
     risks to such supply during a transition to production 
     without the use of highly enriched uranium.
       (b) Submission.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
     Secretary of Energy shall submit to the appropriate 
     congressional committees a report containing the plan and 
     assessment under subsection (a).
       (2) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
     annex.
       (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
     means--
       (A) the congressional defense committees;
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
       (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.


         amendment no. 116 Offered by Mr. Hunter of California

       At the end of title XXXV add the following:

     SEC. __. FOREIGN SPILL PROTECTION.

       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Foreign Spill Protection Act of 2017''.
       (b) Liability of Owners and Operators of Foreign 
     Facilities.--
       (1) Oil pollution control act amendments.--
       (A) Definitions.--Section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 
     1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701) is amended--
       (i) in paragraph (26)(A)--

       (I) in clause (ii), by striking ``onshore or offshore 
     facility, any person'' and inserting ``onshore facility, 
     offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility 
     located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, any person or 
     entity''; and
       (II) in clause (iii), by striking ``offshore facility, the 
     person who'' and inserting ``offshore facility or foreign 
     offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone, the person or entity that''; and

       (ii) in paragraph (32)--

       (I) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (F) as 
     subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively;
       (II) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:

       ``(D) Foreign facilities.--In the case of a foreign 
     offshore unit or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone, any person or other entity owning or 
     operating the facility, and any leaseholder, permit holder, 
     assignee, or holder of a right of use and easement granted 
     under applicable foreign law for the area in which the 
     facility is located.''; and

       (III) in subparagraph (G), as so redesignated, by striking 
     ``or offshore facility, the persons who'' and inserting ``, 
     offshore facility, or foreign offshore unit or other facility 
     located seaward of the exclusive economic zone, the persons 
     or entities that''.

       (B) Actions on behalf of fund.--Section 1015(c) of the Oil 
     Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2715(c)) is amended, in the 
     third sentence, by adding before the period at the end the 
     following: ``or other facility located seaward of the 
     exclusive economic zone''.
       (2) Federal water pollution control act amendments.--
     Section 311(a)(11) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
     (33 U.S.C. 1321(a)(11)) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``and any facility'' and inserting ``any 
     facility''; and
       (B) by inserting ``, and, for the purposes of applying 
     subsections (b), (c), (e), and (o), any foreign offshore unit 
     (as defined in section 1001 of the Oil Pollution Act) or any 
     other facility located seaward of the exclusive economic 
     zone'' after ``public vessel''.
       (c) Continuation Pay.--For providing continuation pay under 
     section 356 of title 37, United States Code, there is 
     appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
     appropriated, to the ``Retired Pay'' account under the 
     heading ``Department of Homeland Security-Coast Guard'' in 
     the applicable appropriations Acts for the Department of 
     Homeland Security--
       (1) $3,286,277 for fiscal year 2018; and
       (2) $3,713,232 for fiscal year 2019.


       amendment no. 117 Offered by Mr. Moulton of Massachusetts

       At the end of subtitle C of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. STRATEGY FOR SYRIA AND IRAQ.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of State, submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a strategy for Syria and 
     Iraq.
       (b) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) A description of the political and military objectives 
     and end states for Syria and Iraq.
       (2) A description of the plan for achieving the political 
     and military objectives and end states for Syria and Iraq, 
     including--
       (A) with respect to Syria, a plan for political transition;
       (B) with respect to Iraq--
       (i) a plan for political reform and reconciliation among 
     ethnic groups and political parties; and
       (ii) an assessment of the required future size and 
     structure of the Iraqi Security Forces, including irregular 
     forces; and
       (C) a description of the roles and responsibilities of 
     United States allies and partners and other countries in the 
     region in establishing regional stability.
       (3) A description of the military conditions that must be 
     met for the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria to be considered 
     defeated.
       (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, 
     the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
     Armed Services of the Senate.


       amendment no. 118 Offered by Mr. Langevin of Rhode Island

       Page 409, after line 2, insert the following new section:

     SEC. 1058. REPORT ON THE NATIONAL BIODEFENSE ANALYSIS AND 
                   COUNTERMEASURES CENTER.

       (a) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2017, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
     Congressional committees a report, prepared in consultation 
     with the officials listed in subsection (b), on the National 
     Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (referred to 
     in this section as the ``NBACC'') containing the following 
     information:
       (1) The functions of the NBACC.
       (2) The end users of the NBACC, including those whose 
     assets may be managed by other agencies.
       (3) The cost and mission impact for each user identified 
     under paragraph (2) of any potential closure of the NBACC, 
     including an analysis of the functions of the NBACC that 
     cannot be replicated by other departments and agencies of the 
     Federal Government.
       (4) In the case of closure of the NBACC, a transition plan 
     for any essential functions currently performed by the NBACC 
     to ensure mission continuity, including the storage of 
     samples needed for ongoing criminal cases.
       (b) Consultation.--The officials listed in this subsection 
     are the following:
       (1) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
       (2) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
       (3) The Attorney General.
       (4) The Director of National Intelligence.
       (5) As determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
     the leaders of other offices that utilize the NBACC.
       (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--For 
     purposes of this section, the term ``appropriate 
     Congressional Committees'' means the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives, the Committees on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the 
     Senate, the Committees on Judiciary of the Senate and the

[[Page H5858]]

     House of Representatives, and the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform of the House of Representatives.


         amendment no. 119 Offered by Mrs. Comstock of Virginia

       At the end of subtitle B of title XVI, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 16__. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NEW COMMERCIAL SATELLITE 
                   SERVICING ACTIVITIES.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) Government funding and support is an important element 
     in fostering the development of a robust marketplace of new 
     commercial satellite servicing activities; and
       (2) the Federal Government should ensure that in its 
     actions it does not unduly or artificially distort 
     competition in the market for new commercial satellite 
     servicing activities.


           amendment no. 120 Offered by Mr. Davidson of Ohio

       At the end of subtitle H of title XII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 12_. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONDUCT MILITARY 
                   OPERATIONS IN YEMEN.

       (a) Prohibition.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of 
     Defense for fiscal year 2018 may be made available to conduct 
     military operations in Yemen.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
     construed to prohibit the following:
       (1) Activities carried out in full compliance with the 
     Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 
     50 U.S.C. 1541 note).
       (2) The provision of humanitarian assistance.
       (3) The defense of United States Armed Forces.
       (4) Support for freedom of navigation operations.


        amendment no. 121 Offered by Mr. Marino of Pennsylvania

       At the end of title VIII (page 323, after line 4), add the 
     following new section:

     SEC. 871. REPORT ON SOURCING OF TUNGSTEN AND TUNGSTEN POWDERS 
                   FROM DOMESTIC PRODUCERS.

       (a) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
     procurement of tungsten and tungsten powders for military 
     applications.
       (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) An overview of the quantities and countries of origin 
     of tungsten and tungsten powders that are procured by the 
     Department of Defense or prime contractors of the Department 
     for military applications.
       (2) An evaluation of the effects on the Department if 
     domestic-produced tungsten and tungsten powders are given 
     priority.
       (3) An evaluation of the effects on the Department if 
     tungsten and tungsten powders are required to be procured 
     from only domestic producers.
       (4) An estimate of any costs associated with domestic 
     sourcing requirements related to tungsten and tungsten 
     powders.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
Smith) each will control 10 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Davidson).
  Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my amendment No. 80 
as en bloc No. 4.
  My amendment encourages collaboration between the FAA and DOD on 
unmanned aircraft systems so that the FAA may leverage the unique 
capabilities and insights of the DOD. These are important activities as 
the FAA moves forward with incorporating unmanned systems into the 
national airspace.
  The efforts highlighted in my amendment are already ongoing 
activities between the FAA and the DOD, but more work needs to be done, 
as documented in a 2014 joint report to Congress.
  The Air Force Research Laboratory located at Wright-Patterson Air 
Force Base, AFRL, in particular, has expertise in these sense-and-avoid 
technologies. AFRL is planning to conduct unmanned aircraft research 
activities at Springfield, Ohio's, Air National Guard base in Ohio's 
Eighth District, upon FAA approval.
  I am proud of our airmen and the work conducted at both Springfield 
and Wright-Patterson and to offer this amendment to help the FAA make 
good use of the capabilities located there.
  I also rise in support of my amendment No. 120 as part of this en 
bloc package.
  The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds.
  Mr. DAVIDSON. My amendment is critical for ensuring Congress reclaims 
its war-making powers by prohibiting funding for U.S. operations in 
Yemen that are not in compliance with the 2001 AUMF. I am concerned 
about any U.S. operations in Yemen that are outside the scope of the 
current AUMF and have no identifiable authorization from Congress.
  My amendment is very simple. If the military operation is within the 
scope of the 2001 AUMF, it is permissible. If it has not been 
authorized by Congress, then it is not permissible.
  I look forward to working with the chairman and my colleagues in the 
Senate to ensure this provision is adopted in the final NDAA conference 
report.
  Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge support of this bill. I want to begin by 
thanking the chairman and all of the members of the committee. As has 
been noted many times, this is the most bipartisan committee in 
Congress; and I think, once again, even in difficult circumstances, we 
have proved that this year. That is, in large part, due to the 
leadership of Chairman Thornberry. I thank him for that.
  I also thank our staff, which does an unbelievable job. There are 
hundreds, if not thousands of amendments, that come at them. They 
manage that. You see the very few that actually come through either in 
committee or on the floor. They work through literally thousands of 
ideas and do an amazing job, so I really want to thank our staff for 
their great work.
  In particular, I want to thank Vickie Plunkett. This will be her last 
markup. She is retiring. She has done a fabulous job for our staff. She 
basically exemplifies everything I just said about how great our staff 
is, how they work in a bipartisan manner and do a great job to serve 
our country. So, I thank Vickie for her incredible service to our 
committee and to the country.
  Mr. Chairman, I think this is a good bill that we should support 
because, make no mistake about it, what the chairman and many others 
have said is true: we face a complex threat environment. The U.S. 
national security is at risk.
  I take Mr. Nolan from Minnesota's point that spending a lot of money 
on wars that we didn't need to engage in does cost us at home, and that 
point is valid, but so is the point that we face threats we must 
confront.
  North Korea is testing intercontinental ballistic missiles. It is no 
doubt that their goal is to develop a nuclear missile, capable of 
striking the U.S.
  Being from the West Coast--and they always say that it could hit 
Seattle. I don't know why they don't talk about any other city on the 
West Coast. It could hit a lot of different places. We need to be 
worried about that. We need to be prepared to stop that.
  Russia continues to undermine not just our elections, but democracy 
itself, across Europe, and even down in the Middle East and Africa. We 
need to be prepared to confront that.
  We face a terrorist threat. 9/11 killed 3,000 people in this country 
because we weren't ready to prevent it. The groups that supported that 
attack have not gone away; they have metastasized.
  Now, I will completely agree with some of my friends on the left, who 
think that the terrorism threat is often overblown. I think it is often 
also a mistake to demonize the Muslim religion. And even though I know 
some people don't do that, they simply want to confront groups like al-
Qaida and ISIS, Steve Bannon, who works right next to the White House, 
has said that Islam is a totalitarian ideology of subjugation, it is 
not a religion. He thinks all Muslims are a threat.
  To the extent that we adopt a national security policy that views the 
world that way, we make the problem worse. That is what ISIS wants; 
that is what al-Qaida wants. They want a clash of civilizations. We 
should not want that. They have killed more Muslims than any other 
religion on Earth. Muslims have the biggest stake in this. We must work 
with them, not against them, to confront that terrorist threat that 
ISIS and al-Qaida and others present.
  On the broader budget issue, as I mentioned a couple of times, the 
first 6 months of this year, we had a number

[[Page H5859]]

of folks in the Pentagon come over and spell out all kinds of nightmare 
scenarios about every bad thing that could conceivably happen--some of 
ones that I mentioned, and hundreds of others that I haven't. And I 
understand that. That is their job. Their job is to worry about what 
could come at us.

  But, past a certain point, that isn't helpful. We need a plan, we 
need a strategy to confront this, and we need to make choices. That is 
the one thing that I am still concerned about with this bill. It really 
doesn't make choices. It continues to spend money in a variety of 
different places, without a recognition of finite resources and choices 
that need to be made about how to confront the threats that are most 
dangerous to us--how to spend that money in the best way possible. That 
is something that I think we need to work on going forward.
  We also have the budget problem that I described. And I won't give 
the same full speech that I gave before, but I will simplify it and say 
that there is a consensus in Congress and in the country that we need 
to balance the budget without raising taxes and without cutting any 
programs that people might like. That doesn't work. It simply is not 
possible. It doesn't add up.
  That is why we don't have a budget resolution. Any budget resolution 
that the Republican Congress could put on the floor will fail to meet 
some of the promises that they, and others, have made. We have got to 
be honest about that, because this bill, again, is $72 billion over the 
budget caps. It is actually $91 billion over the budget caps, if you 
add in--well, sorry, $81 billion over the budget caps, if you add in 
the money that we took from OCO to put into the base.
  So, if we do not raise the budget caps, this goes away and leaves us, 
once again, in the land of uncertainty for the Department of Defense. 
We have to make choices on the budget going forward so that we don't 
leave the Defense Department in the lurch, not knowing how much money 
that they are going to have. So, we still don't have a budget 
resolution in front of us.
  And, lastly, I do want to point out that the rest of the budget does 
matter. The chairman and I have had a little bit of an argument about 
this: we are the Armed Services Committee, we should pay attention to 
that; you know, don't sacrifice our troops for the sake of domestic--he 
always says political priorities. That is the one word in his argument 
that I find not really appropriate.
  There is nothing political about it. It is a policy choice. It is 
basically deciding what domestic priorities are important.
  And, make no mistake about it, the discretionary budget is a zero-sum 
game. I mentioned yesterday the President's budget: a $54 billion plus-
up for defense, and $54 billion cut from nondefense discretionary. So 
don't tell me that one thing doesn't have anything to do with the 
other.
  But even the so-called budget resolution, the budget agreement that 
the House Republicans have come up with, but have not yet dared to put 
to a vote, has a $72 billion plus-up for defense, and a $5 billion cut 
for domestic spending. So, again, the two are absolutely connected.
  What are we talking about with domestic spending? I won't go through 
all of it. I will just mention a couple of things.
  Yesterday, I mentioned our infrastructure. Bridges are collapsing all 
across the country. I saw a big story yesterday about how the Memorial 
Bridge is about to fall down. We have incredible infrastructure needs 
that lead to the strength of our country that are connected, just like 
national defense is to the strength of this Nation.
  But another example, the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center--it 
is close to my district, it is in Seattle--is doing incredible research 
right now, that figured out how to not use chemotherapy but actually go 
in, take out the white blood cells that aren't working, get them to 
work, and send them back in to successfully fight cancer. This has 
worked for blood cancers. They just started studies on lung cancer. 
But, basically, we could cure cancer, without going through the hell of 
chemo. The President's budget would cut Fred Hutchinson's funding by 
over two-thirds.
  I don't think curing cancer is a political agenda. That is a very 
real need that has an incredible impact on the lives of Americans, just 
like national security. It is like making sure that North Korea doesn't 
hit us with a nuclear weapon, making sure that terrorist groups don't 
attack us. Curing cancer, stopping bridges from collapsing, these are 
priorities.

                              {time}  1015

  Because we are not making budget choices, these are priorities that 
get pushed aside. And if you plus-up defense and take it from 
nondefense discretionary, then you are having that very real impact.
  Now, I am not going to say it has to be dollar for dollar. I think it 
probably should be, but we can negotiate around that. But to simply gut 
the nondefense discretionary budget to plus-up defense does not make 
this country safer.
  We heard yesterday, hey, in a time of war, you make domestic 
sacrifices. And we have all read about World War II, all the domestic 
sacrifices that were made at that time. I get that.
  But you know what else you do in a time of war? Well, you don't cut 
taxes. You raise them. Prior to 2001, we had never gone to war without 
raising taxes or issuing war bonds or, basically, asking for more 
money. But that, of course, we cannot do.
  Again, I will say I care enough about the national security of this 
country, I would raise taxes to pay for it instead of simply adding to 
the deficit or stopping the ability of somebody like the Fred 
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center from finding a cure for cancer. That 
is the choice that I would make. These choices are not being made in 
this budget resolution, and I think that places us at risk.
  Lastly, the nondefense discretionary budget is the State Department, 
it is USAID, it is the Department of Homeland Security. If you are 
going to have a national security strategy, it can't just be the 
military. And you know who will tell you that more often than anybody? 
The military. They don't want to bear the entire burden.
  General Secretary Mattis had the best quote on this. If you are going 
to cut diplomacy, if you are going to cut development, you better give 
me four more divisions because that is how many more wars I am going to 
have to fight.
  So to say we are going to add all this money to defense, and defense 
is so important, and if you are against it because of other priorities, 
then you just don't care about the troops, is incredibly disingenuous 
because all of these other things matter to the national security of 
this country. And all we are getting out of the majority right now is 
an effort to plus-up defense at the expense of everything else.
  I say an effort because they haven't actually voted on it yet. It 
hasn't actually happened. And it is more likely than not that this 
bill--good, though, it is--and the great work that has been done on a 
number of different policy divisions that don't have anything to do 
with the money, the good work on acquisition reform to try to make sure 
we get more for the money that we spend, all of that is in jeopardy 
because this bill has at least $72 billion in it over the budget caps 
that is, more likely than not, not going to be there come October 1 or 
the end of this year.
  So if we don't make the choices on the budget that reflect the 
priorities of the entire country, that actually reflect the budget 
numbers, then we are doing a disservice to the men and women who serve 
our country.
  It is a good bill. It is going to be better once we figure out the 
budget issues and actually start making the choices that are necessary 
to make us stronger in every aspect of society.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, I fully agree with the gentleman from Washington when 
he expresses his appreciation to the members of our committee. Each one 
of the 62 members of our committee has contributed to the bill that is 
here before us today and, as the Chair knows, we have had more 
amendments considered over the last 3 days than ever before for a 
National Defense Authorization bill. So Members of the whole body have 
contributed in many ways.

[[Page H5860]]

  I also agree with the gentleman that our staff on both sides of the 
aisle, led by Jenness Simler and Paul Arcangeli, have done a terrific 
job in helping to manage this process and to shape and guide what has 
been historic levels of interest by Members on particular provisions.
  Mr. Chairman, I think that you would find among our committee 
virtually, if not unanimous, agreement on two points. One is we live in 
an increasingly dangerous world. The second one is we have done deep 
damage to our military because of the budgets cuts, the continuing 
resolutions, the erratic nature of funding over the last few years.
  Certainly, the members of our committee who go out and actually talk 
to the people who serve have heard, seen, witnessed firsthand airplanes 
that can't fly, ships that can't sail, training that has not gone on, 
movers--we are trying to save money for the military, so we are hiring 
cut-rate movers, and members of the military are experiencing 
incredible damage to their household goods as they are shuffled about 
from place to place involuntarily. Sometimes there are movers with 
criminal records who can't actually get on the military base they are 
supposed to be delivering to. I mean, just example after example of how 
these cuts have affected the men and women who serve.
  And as Secretary Mattis says, the only reason we are doing so well 
around the world is because they have sucked it up and borne the 
burden. Deep damage that this bill starts to reverse.
  I appreciate all the Members who support fixing our planes, getting 
the training, having ships that sail, better missile defense, all the 
things that are in this bill.
  I am not going to engage in a detailed discussion about the budget. 
The gentleman and I discuss this frequently.
  I would just say, Mr. Chairman, I believe the first obligation of the 
Federal Government is to defend the country. Article I, section 8 says 
that Congress has the power and the responsibility to raise and support 
armies, provide and maintain navies, provide the rules and regulations 
for the military forces of the United States. That is our job, and I 
think that is our first job.
  So I agree that some of the cuts that have been proposed in other 
domestic programs, discretionary programs, are inappropriate, and we 
ought to evaluate each of them on their merits. And that continues to 
be my point when it comes to defense.
  We evaluate our obligations to the country and to the men and women 
who serve, based on the merits of this argument. We don't tie it to 
other domestic programs. We do not say we are only going to increase 
defense to fix our planes if we can increase the EPA an equal amount. 
We don't tie it to other things.
  The obligations to the men and women who risk their lives stand on 
their own, and that, at least in my view, is our first obligation.
  Now, when we start talking about budgets, we get into all sorts of 
conversations about how mandatory spending is really where more than 
two-thirds of the budget is; how that is what has been growing; how 
defense is down to about 16 percent of the budget, and as it has been 
shrinking, the deficit has been going up. Obviously, defense is not the 
cause when it comes to deficits.
  We can also, when we talk about tax, start talking about economic 
growth and this lackluster growth that the economy has suffered, at 
least over the last 8 years, and the need to get things going to help 
with the deficit.
  Lots of issues to discuss, but the issue before us today is how we 
fulfill our responsibilities to the men and women who serve and to the 
country that is relying on us to protect them from missiles, to help 
protect them from terrorist attacks, to support the men and women who 
are actually performing those missions.
  I think this bill advances that cause. A number of Members on both 
sides of the aisle have contributed to it. I think and hope it deserves 
the support of most all Members of the House, and I urge support for 
this en bloc package.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Chair, as we prepare to vote on the final passage 
of the National Defense Authorization Act I am extremely concerned 
about the lack of discussion and debate on the issue of Russia.
  As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have heard from 
the leaders of our military and there is no question about the threat 
Russia poses to our national security.
  It is alarming to me that a number of amendments, which purpose was 
to gain better situational awareness on various Russian activities, 
were not debated on the floor this week.
  Despite the fact that Russia has continuously attacked and interfered 
with our country's democratic process, while continuing to threaten the 
democracy and sovereignty of other states, this body has decided to 
avoid a robust discussion on the concerning actions of Russia.
  Mr. Chair, it is obvious that we have not adequately addressed the 
threat Russia poses to our nation.
  Reasonable amendments like mine that would have assessed Russia's 
disinformation and propaganda activities along with its support for 
separatist activities were not made in order. Mr. Chair, why would we 
not want more information on these concerning activities?
  My amendment would have also assessed the suppressive democratic 
conditions in Russia. Is this body no longer concerned about human 
rights?
  I believe it is the responsibility of Congress to fully understand 
and assess the threats other countries pose on our national security.
  I have no doubt that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
will agree with me that Russia has demonstrated to be a threat to the 
security of our nation. As such why aren't we doing more to address 
this threat?
  Mr. Chair, this Congress needs to have a discussion on how we can 
most effectively combat the aggressive actions of Russia, and it is 
disappointing that we were unable to do this during the consideration 
of the National Defense Authorization Act.
  Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendment to cut 
waste and strengthen our military installations.
  This amendment would require the Department of Defense to ensure that 
there is not usable space available on a military installation before 
entering into expensive leases or purchasing additional property.
  To put this into context, you wouldn't lease space in a parking lot 
if you already had room in your own garage to park your car.
  This amendment is needed because, while asking for another round of 
base realignments and closures, the Department of Defense leased more 
than 6,000 buildings in fiscal year 2015 instead of using available 
space that it already owns.
  That sounds like a waste to me.
  My Congressional district is home to the Rock Island Arsenal, and 
we're proud to have it as part of our community.
  It houses the Army's only remaining foundry and employs more than 
6,000 hardworking people.
  But like many of our military installations, it has room for more.
  We should be using facilities like the Arsenal to their full 
potential, especially when it means we can reduce overall costs.
  That's why I'm offering this amendment today.
  I want to thank my bipartisan cosponsors Congressmen Paul Gosar, Dave 
Loebsack and Walter Jones for their support of this amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered 
by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry).
  The en bloc amendments were agreed to.


                Amendment No. 122 Offered by Ms. Tenney

  The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 122 
printed in House Report 115-217.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk.
  The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title VIII, add the following 
     new section:

     SEC. 860A. ADDITION OF DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED STAINLESS STEEL 
                   FLATWARE TO THE BERRY AMENDMENT.

       (a) In General.--Section 2533a(b) of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(3) Stainless steel flatware.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Section 2533a(b)(3) of title 10, 
     United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply 
     with respect to contracts entered into after the date 
     occurring one year after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act.

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 440, the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. Tenney) and a Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes.

[[Page H5861]]

  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New York.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Chairman, my constituents are discouraged. They are 
fed up with political elites who have failed to represent them, and 
with special interest groups who, too often, put impractical dogma 
before practical policy.
  In the Rust Belt region I represent in upstate New York, the impact 
of this has been devastating: devastating job losses, economic 
stagnation, and the massive out-migration of people and jobs, the 
largest in the Nation.
  In my district, Mr. Chairman, decline has bred despair, which has 
spurred a host of other problems. In light of all this, I was elected 
to Congress with a strong mission to reverse the tide and to revitalize 
our upstate communities to the greatness and innovation they once 
experienced.
  I am the voice for my constituents who have been left behind, and I 
am fighting to bring my district back on path toward individual 
prosperity and economic revival.
  Mr. Chairman, my amendment uniquely achieves both. There is nothing 
new or groundbreaking about my amendment. Simply put, it reinstates a 
domestic sourcing provision for stainless steel flatware that was in 
law for 30 years without issue. My amendment adds stainless steel 
flatware back into the Berry amendment.
  For 30 years, American-made flatware was covered under Berry. 
However, the provision was removed in 2006 after Oneida Limited, the 
only Berry-compliant manufacturer, ceased domestic operations.
  In the void left by Oneida's departure came Sherrill Manufacturing, a 
company in my district that, since 2008, has produced 100 percent 
American-made flatware. And since 2008, Sherrill has been among the top 
providers of flatware to the Department of Defense and GSA, fulfilling 
more than $6.8 million in Federal contracts over an 8-year period.
  All these products are being produced in the formerly closed factory 
using refurbished Oneida Limited equipment, and also providing jobs for 
many of the same employees who lost their jobs from Oneida's closure 
after decades of service to that same closed factory. In fact, GSA has 
repeatedly found Sherrill's flatware to be offered at fair and 
reasonable prices, which is why the agency already purchases flatware 
from Sherrill, independent of any domestic sourcing requirement.
  Some domestic sourcing requirements may raise costs. No evidence has 
been submitted to support the claim that my amendment will do that. 
This alone should allay any concerns that taxpayers would be on the 
hook for overly expensive flatware, should my amendment be adopted. But 
if it isn't enough, then there is this:
  My amendment retains all existing waivers under Berry, which means 
that, if Sherrill's flatware becomes too expensive or is of poor 
quality or insufficient quality, the DOD can find other sources.
  Ultimately, Mr. Chairman, whenever we can create domestic sourcing 
opportunities that reduce our military's dependence on imported goods 
and strengthen domestic supply chains without significantly raising 
procurement costs, we should. And this is what my amendment does.
  Reinstating the Berry amendment's domestic sourcing requirement 
represents a clear continuity in Federal procurement policy, not a 
stark divergence. As I said, this provision was in effect for 30 years.
  Thus far, there is one Berry-compliant manufacturer that happens to 
be in my district and there should not be a problem with that, as we 
hope many more producers return to the United States, where their 
businesses were founded to provide robust competition.
  I also support this amendment for the simple reason that it is good 
policy. It gives a leg up to a robust domestic supply chain that spans 
five States while reducing our military's logistical dependence on 
imports.
  Moreover, for the 30-year history of the Berry amendment's flatware 
provision, there was only ever one domestic producer. Under the Berry 
amendment, this is all that is required. And in Sherrill's case, we 
know it is a producer that has a track record of offering flatware at 
market rates.
  Mr. Chairman, in districts like mine across the country that have 
rusted-out factories that line the landscapes of far too many of my 
communities, today we have an opportunity to fix this problem and 
restore the once great Empire State and our Nation to the manufacturing 
strength it once enjoyed. I urge my colleagues to support this 
bipartisan measure.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Lipinski), my colleague, for some comments.
  Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment, and 
I want to make one thing perfectly clear. American taxpayers want their 
tax dollars to go to putting Americans to work. This amendment means 
buy American and hire American. So I just want everyone to be clear. We 
hear a lot about Buy American, Hire American. This is what this 
amendment would do, and I urge all my colleagues to support this 
amendment.
  Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I claim time in opposition to the 
amendment.
  The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Texas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Chairman, I have tremendous respect and admiration for the 
gentlewoman from New York and her efforts to represent her district, 
her people, and try to make life better. It kind of relates to some of 
the conversations Mr. Smith and I were just having about tax policy, 
about industrial policy, about regulations, about how we have, in this 
country, become less competitive internationally than we should.
  However, I must oppose this amendment because the bottom line is that 
it is not a matter of national security where the DOD buys its knives, 
forks, and spoons.

                              {time}  1030

  If Members needed further evidence of the wide range of issues which 
we deal with in the National Defense Authorization Act, this bill is a 
key example.
  I think the gentlewoman accurately described the history. The Berry 
amendment was passed in 1940 to make sure that food and textiles were 
procured from the United States to support our military efforts.
  In the 1970s, they put in a specialty metals provision, and attached 
to that was a comma that said ``including flatware.'' So then it turned 
out there wasn't anybody here at home that made flatware because of 
these international competitive issues, and DOD came to us more than a 
decade ago and said, ``Would you please get rid of that portion of the 
Berry amendment?'' and we did.
  Now the question is: Are we going to start adding back specific sorts 
of items which DOD may buy and say you can only buy it from one place, 
whether or not it is critical to our country's national security?
  Now, the gentlewoman mentioned that GSA is buying some spoons and 
knives and so forth from this manufacturer, and that is great. If we 
do, I hope that happens, and I hope more jobs come to her district. But 
to put into Federal law that the only place the Department of Defense 
can buy its knives and forks and spoons is from this one company, I 
think, starts to get us into micromanagement of industries and takes us 
away from the focus of this bill, which should be the troops, what is 
the best thing for them.
  So with all my admiration for the gentlewoman, I oppose this 
amendment. We cannot go down the road of adding category after category 
after category of items to help our districts at the expense of our 
troops and the best use of dollars when it is not a matter of vital 
national security. I just don't think that the knives and forks we use 
qualify as vital national security.
  Mr. Chair, I oppose the amendment, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Tenney).
  The amendment was rejected.


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings 
will

[[Page H5862]]

now resume on those amendments printed in House Report 115-217 on which 
further proceedings were postponed, in the following order:
  Amendment No. 13 by Mr. Franks of Arizona.
  Amendment No. 15 by Mr. Lamborn of Colorado.
  Amendment No. 17 by Mr. Byrne of Alabama.
  Amendment No. 18 by Mr. Hunter of California.
  Amendment No. 43 by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts.
  The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the time for any electronic vote 
after the first vote in this series.


           Amendment No. 13 Offered by Mr. Franks of Arizona

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Arizona 
(Mr. Franks) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 208, 
noes 217, not voting 8, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 372]

                               AYES--208

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Comer
     Conaway
     Cook
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Rutherford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--217

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Collins (NY)
     Comstock
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Dent
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Faso
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meehan
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Reichert
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Russell
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walden
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth
     Young (AK)

                             NOT VOTING--8

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise

                              {time}  1057

  Messrs. THOMPSON of Mississippi, VARGAS, Ms. SINEMA, Messrs. 
NEWHOUSE, TROTT, FITZPATRICK, PETERSON, Mrs. TORRES, Messrs. FASO, and 
LANGEVIN changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California changed her vote from ``no'' to 
``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 15 Offered by Mr. Lamborn

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Collins of Georgia). The unfinished business is 
the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Lamborn) on which further proceedings were 
postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 235, 
noes 189, not voting 9, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 373]

                               AYES--235

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast

[[Page H5863]]


     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--189

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--9

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Lamborn
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise

                              {time}  1101

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Byrne

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. Byrne) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 244, 
noes 181, not voting 8, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 374]

                               AYES--244

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Castor (FL)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garamendi
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sessions
     Shea-Porter
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Vela
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Wasserman Schultz
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--181

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Fitzpatrick
     Foster
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (WA)
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--8

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise

[[Page H5864]]


  



                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1105

  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                 Amendment No. 18 Offered by Mr. Hunter

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Hunter) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which 
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 234, 
noes 190, not voting 9, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 375]

                               AYES--234

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                               NOES--190

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--9

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Perlmutter
     Scalise


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.

                              {time}  1108

  Ms. PELOSI changed her vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                Amendment No. 43 Offered by Mr. McGovern

  The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a 
recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) on which further proceedings were 
postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
  The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
  The Clerk redesignated the amendment.


                             Recorded Vote

  The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 424, 
noes 0, not voting 9, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 376]

                               AYES--424

     Abraham
     Adams
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barragan
     Barton
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cohen
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DeSaulnier
     DesJarlais
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Ellison
     Emmer
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Griffith
     Grijalva
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson

[[Page H5865]]


     Huffman
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Meng
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moore
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Pallone
     Palmer
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Payne
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Pocan
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Polis
     Posey
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Richmond
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Speier
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Trott
     Tsongas
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Welch
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yarmuth
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--9

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Graves (GA)
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise


                    Announcement by the Acting Chair

  The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Simpson) (during the vote). There is 1 minute 
remaining.

                              {time}  1112

  Mr. CONYERS changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The Acting CHAIR. There being no further amendments, under the rule, 
the Committee rises.
  Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
Collins of Georgia) having assumed the chair, Mr. Simpson, Acting Chair 
of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported 
that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 
2810) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes, and, pursuant to House Resolution 440, he reported the 
bill, as amended by House Resolution 431, back to the House with sundry 
further amendments adopted in the Committee of the Whole.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is 
ordered.
  Is a separate vote demanded on any further amendment reported from 
the Committee of the Whole? If not, the Chair will put them en gros.
  The amendments were agreed to.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third 
reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.


                           Motion to Recommit

  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, I have a 
motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. I am opposed in its current 
form.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:

       Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico moves to recommit 
     H.R. 2810 to the Committee on Armed Services with 
     instructions to report the same back to the House forthwith, 
     with the following amendment:
       At the end of subtitle D of title X, insert the following 
     new section 1039:

     SEC. 1039. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING USE OF DEPARTMENT 
                   OF DEFENSE FUNDING OF A BORDER WALL.

       None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the 
     Department of Defense may be used to plan, develop, or 
     construct any barriers, including walls or fences, along the 
     international border of the United States.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, this is the 
final amendment to the bill, which will not kill the bill or send it 
back to committee. If adopted, the bill will immediately proceed to 
final passage, as amended.
  The National Defense Authorization Act has passed Congress 56 years 
in a row, and that is a testament to the collaborative, bipartisan work 
the Armed Services Committee has done to support our troops who put 
themselves in harm's way every single day to defend our country.
  This year, the House Armed Services Committee adopted an amendment 
introduced by Congressman Gallego to ensure that none of the funds 
meant to support our troops and safeguard our Nation's security can be 
used for building President Trump's border wall.
  The amendment was debated, amended, and ultimately adopted without 
objection by every single member of the Armed Services Committee.
  If you ask the people who know the border the best, whether it is 
companies, lawmakers, border communities, trade groups, economists, or 
law enforcement officials--both Republicans and Democrats--most agree 
that building a wall is unnecessary, impractical, ineffective, and, 
frankly, a complete waste of time and taxpayer money.
  Furthermore, the United States already maintains approximately 650 
miles of border fence in areas that most effectively stop the 
unauthorized entry of people, vehicles, drugs, arms, and other illicit 
items.
  Instead of a costly border wall between the U.S. and Mexico, the 
Armed Services Committee chose to fully fund military healthcare, raise 
the pay of military personnel, and improve our Nation's cybersecurity.
  They agreed that President Trump's ongoing effort to build a wall is 
wasteful and has absolutely nothing to do with advancing U.S. national 
security interests.
  I want to emphasize that this amendment incorporated both Democratic 
and Republican ideas, and passed unanimously in a bipartisan manner. 
But late Tuesday night, House Republican leadership stripped 
Congressman Gallego's amendment from the NDAA with the use of a 
glaringly undemocratic, procedural gimmick to help Trump fulfill his 
campaign promise.
  Republican leadership's actions to unilaterally open the door for 
funding the wall through the use of this defense bill is an insult to 
every single member of the Armed Services Committee, to our democratic 
principles, and to the spirit of bipartisanship.
  They chose to undermine the unanimous judgment of the Armed Services 
Committee without the courage to test their proposal with a vote or 
even a debate on the floor.
  You may hear my colleague on the other side of the aisle claim that 
prohibiting the construction of the wall doesn't fall within the 
jurisdiction of the Defense Department. However, I am not sure why the 
8 members of the Rules Committee believe that they are more qualified 
to judge what should be included in the NDAA than the 61 members of the 
Armed Services Committee or the 435 Members of this deliberative body 
as a whole.

[[Page H5866]]

  Further, I am not sure why the Rules Committee thought that a 
discriminatory amendment preventing the Department of Defense from 
providing medically necessary healthcare services to transgendered 
military personnel was more appropriate for debate than preventing 
Trump from usurping funds intended for our troops.
  You may also hear that my Republican colleagues claim that President 
Trump can't use any funds in the NDAA to start construction of the wall 
anyway. But that is not true. Under title 10, the Secretary of Defense 
could transfer funding for that purpose this afternoon if he wanted, 
all without approval of Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, the only way this body can guarantee that Trump cannot 
use Department of Defense funds to construct the border wall is to put 
that prohibition in the bill explicitly. The only way we can do that is 
by passing my motion to recommit to restore Congressman Gallego's 
bipartisan amendment in the bill and ensure that our troops are not 
robbed to pay for a border wall.
  But I want to be clear: the adoption of this amendment will not 
prevent passage of the underlying bill. If the amendment is adopted, it 
will be incorporated into the bill and the bill will immediately be 
voted upon.
  We all have an opportunity to stand united to support our Nation's 
servicemembers and to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars from the 
President's political pipe dream.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support my final amendment, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the motion to 
recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Texas is recognized for 5 
minutes.
  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, this is a procedural motion that, in my 
view, should be rejected.
  We could spend all day and night arguing provisions that prohibit 
what is not in the bill. There is nothing in this bill that authorizes 
a border wall. The focus of the bill is the men and women who serve our 
Nation in the military and the national security of the United States. 
And that is what I want to take a moment to talk about.
  I would suggest that all of us think back just to the events of the 
last 10 days. On July 4, North Korea launched what most observers 
believe is an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching 
parts of the United States. And we know they already have nuclear 
weapons.
  On July 9, Iraqi Prime Minister al-Abadi went into Mosul to celebrate 
the ousting of ISIS with U.S. advisers, U.S. airpower, and U.S. 
intelligence.
  Also, this week, the Chinese navy conducted drills in the 
Mediterranean on their way to conduct joint exercises with the Russians 
in the Balkans.
  This is just a taste of the world we live in, and there are 
provisions in this bill that address every one of these incidents, from 
more missile defense to getting more ships in the water faster and 
cheaper, to supporting our efforts against ISIS, al-Qaida, and 
terrorist groups.

  But there is another event this week that I hope we all keep in mind. 
On Monday, July 10, a KC-130 crashed on its way across the country, 
resulting in the death of 15 marines and one sailor. We do not know 
what caused this crash, but the early evidence indicates that there was 
a catastrophic failure when it was cruising at altitude.
  It will be fully investigated. But in the meantime, I think we always 
have to remember that, even on routine training missions, even on 
routine deployments, the men and women who serve are risking their 
lives for us. We owe them the best equipment, in the best shape, with 
the best training that our Nation can provide. Unfortunately, that is 
not what they have been getting.
  This year, our committee has heard testimony that, under the budget 
caps, the Army is outranged, outgunned, and outdated. More than half 
the Navy aircraft cannot fly. More than half the planes in the Air 
Force qualify for an antique license in the State of Virginia. More 
than half the planes the Navy has can't fly. Unfortunately, accident 
rates are going up.
  Sometimes I have heard the argument that: Well, we are not going to 
give them any more money until they can pass an audit or they can do 
this and that or the other thing.
  But as everybody rushes out to get on their airplanes, just think 
about this: What if the board of directors of your airline decided that 
they are not going to spend any more money repairing planes until there 
is a bookkeeping problem solved in headquarters?
  Yet that is exactly what we have been doing to our military. We have 
not been giving them the planes and other equipment in good repair.
  Every year for 55 straight years, Congresses and Presidents of both 
parties have passed into law a National Defense Authorization Act. 
There is a lot of credit to go around, including the Members on both 
sides of this aisle who have contributed to this product. I am very 
grateful for what they have done. But what I am really grateful for are 
the men and women who serve and inspire us, the men and women who are 
counting on us.
  Mr. Speaker, I would just say, whatever our differences on other 
issues, which we will have time to debate in another time and place, 
whatever our differences about what is in or not in this bill, we need 
to put those differences aside and continue to support the men and 
women who serve and defend us. Let's not let them down.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, I demand a 
recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair 
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for any electronic vote on 
the question of passage.
  This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 190, 
noes 235, not voting 8, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 377]

                               AYES--190

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Barragan
     Bass
     Beatty
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop (GA)
     Blumenauer
     Blunt Rochester
     Bonamici
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Bustos
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carson (IN)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Conyers
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Crist
     Crowley
     Cuellar
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     DeSaulnier
     Deutch
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Ellison
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Foster
     Frankel (FL)
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gomez
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Gottheimer
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Hanabusa
     Hastings
     Heck
     Higgins (NY)
     Himes
     Hoyer
     Huffman
     Jackson Lee
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kihuen
     Kildee
     Kilmer
     Kind
     Krishnamoorthi
     Kuster (NH)
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Lawrence
     Lawson (FL)
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     Loebsack
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Lowey
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Matsui
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McGovern
     McNerney
     Meng
     Moore
     Moulton
     Murphy (FL)
     Nadler
     Neal
     Nolan
     Norcross
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Payne
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Quigley
     Raskin
     Rice (NY)
     Richmond
     Rosen
     Roybal-Allard
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanchez
     Sarbanes
     Schakowsky
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schrader
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Serrano
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Sherman
     Sinema
     Sires
     Slaughter
     Smith (WA)
     Soto
     Speier
     Suozzi
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tonko
     Torres
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Wilson (FL)
     Yarmuth

                               NOES--235

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Allen
     Amash
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)

[[Page H5867]]


     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Bergman
     Biggs
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Bost
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Cook
     Costello (PA)
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis, Rodney
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Duncan (TN)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Estes (KS)
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foxx
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Garrett
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gohmert
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Handel
     Harper
     Harris
     Hartzler
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Katko
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Latta
     Lewis (MN)
     LoBiondo
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     MacArthur
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Massie
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Mullin
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Norman
     Nunes
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Perry
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Royce (CA)
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Sanford
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smucker
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                             NOT VOTING--8

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1132

  So the motion to recommit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                          personal explanation

  Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I regrettably missed votes on July 12 
through 14, 2017. I regrettably had to attend and preside over the 
funeral of a good friend and civic leader in Kansas City.
  Had I been present I would have voted as follows on H.R. 23:
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 351 On Motion to Recommit with Instructions: 
Gaining Responsibility on Water Act
  ``No'' on rollcall 352 On Passage: Gaining Responsibility on Water 
Act
  ``No'' on rollcall 353 Motion to Adjourn
  ``No'' on rollcall 354 On ordering the Previous Question
  ``No'' on rollcall 355 On Agreeing to the Resolution H. Res. 440
  For H.R. 2810 Had I been present I would have voted as follows:
  ``No'' on rollcall 356 Conaway Amendment 2
  ``No'' on rollcall 357 Polis, Lee Amendment
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 358 Jayapal/Pocan Amendment 5
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 359 Nadler Amendment 6
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 360 Blumenauer Amendment 8
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 361 Aguilar Amendment 10
  ``No'' on rollcall 362 Rogers (AL) Amendment 88
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 363 Garamendi Amendment 12
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 364 Blumenauer Amendment 13
  ``No'' on rollcall 365 McClintock Amendment 14
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 366 Garamendi/Hunter amendment 1
  ``No'' on rollcall 367 Buck amendment 3
  ``No'' on rollcall 368 Buck/Perry amendment 4
  ``No'' on rollcall 369 Hartzler amendment 10
  ``No'' on rollcall 370 Gosar amendment 5
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 371 Rooney, Murphy amendment 6
  ``No'' on rollcall 372 Franks Amendment 13
  ``No'' on rollcall 373 Lamborn Amendment 15
  ``No'' on rollcall 374 Frankel, Byrne Amendment 17
  ``No'' on rollcall 375 Hunter, Wilson Amendment 18
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 376 McGovern, Emmer Amendment 43
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 377 Motion to Recommit H.R. 2810
  ``Yes'' on rollcall 378 Final Passage of H.R. 2810


                          personal explanation

  Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, because of a funeral of a family member, 
I was not present on Friday, July 14, for votes during National Defense 
Authorization Act of 2017. Had I been here I would have voted in the 
following manner.
  Rollcall Vote 372--``Yea''
  Rollcall Vote 373--``Yea''
  Rollcall Vote 374--``Yea''
  Rollcall Vote 375--``Yea''
  Rollcall Vote 376--``Yea''
  Rollcall Vote 377--MTR--``Nay''
  Rollcall Vote 378--Final Passage--``Yea''


Announcement by Committee on Rules Regarding Amendment Process on H.R. 
                     218, H.R. 2910, and H.R. 2883

  Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, the Rules Committee issued announcements 
outlining the amendment process for three measures that likely will be 
before the Rules Committee next week.
  An amendment deadline has been set for Tuesday, July 18, at 10 a.m., 
for H.R. 218, the King Cove Road Land Exchange Act; H.R. 2910, the 
Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines 
Act; and H.R. 2883, the Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure 
Act.
  The text of these measures is available on the Rules Committee 
website. Feel free to contact me or a member of the Rules Committee if 
Members have any questions.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, 5-minute voting will 
continue.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


                             Recorded Vote

  Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 344, 
noes 81, not voting 8, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 378]

                               AYES--344

     Abraham
     Aderholt
     Aguilar
     Allen
     Amodei
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Banks (IN)
     Barletta
     Barr
     Barton
     Beatty
     Bera
     Bergman
     Beyer
     Biggs
     Bishop (GA)
     Bishop (MI)
     Bishop (UT)
     Black
     Blackburn
     Blum
     Blunt Rochester
     Bost
     Boyle, Brendan F.
     Brady (PA)
     Brady (TX)
     Brat
     Bridenstine
     Brooks (AL)
     Brooks (IN)
     Brown (MD)
     Brownley (CA)
     Buchanan
     Buck
     Bucshon
     Budd
     Burgess
     Bustos
     Byrne
     Calvert
     Carbajal
     Cardenas
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Cartwright
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Chabot
     Cheney
     Clay
     Clyburn
     Coffman
     Cole
     Collins (GA)
     Collins (NY)
     Comer
     Comstock
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Cook
     Cooper
     Correa
     Costa
     Costello (PA)
     Courtney
     Cramer
     Crawford
     Crist
     Cuellar
     Culberson
     Curbelo (FL)
     Davidson
     Davis (CA)
     Davis, Danny
     Davis, Rodney
     Delaney
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Demings
     Denham
     Dent
     DeSantis
     DesJarlais
     Deutch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Donovan
     Duffy
     Duncan (SC)
     Dunn
     Emmer
     Engel
     Estes (KS)
     Esty (CT)
     Evans
     Farenthold
     Faso
     Ferguson
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flores
     Fortenberry
     Foster
     Foxx
     Frankel (FL)
     Franks (AZ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Gaetz
     Gallagher
     Gallego
     Garamendi
     Gianforte
     Gibbs
     Gonzalez (TX)
     Goodlatte
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Gowdy
     Granger
     Graves (GA)
     Graves (LA)
     Graves (MO)
     Green, Al
     Green, Gene
     Grothman
     Guthrie
     Hanabusa
     Handel
     Harper
     Hartzler
     Hastings
     Heck
     Hensarling
     Herrera Beutler
     Hice, Jody B.
     Higgins (LA)
     Higgins (NY)
     Hill
     Himes
     Holding
     Hollingsworth
     Hoyer
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hultgren
     Hunter
     Hurd
     Issa
     Jackson Lee
     Jenkins (KS)
     Jenkins (WV)
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (OH)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Kaptur
     Katko
     Keating
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kihuen
     Kilmer
     Kind
     King (IA)
     King (NY)
     Kinzinger
     Knight
     Krishnamoorthi

[[Page H5868]]


     Kuster (NH)
     Kustoff (TN)
     LaHood
     LaMalfa
     Lamborn
     Lance
     Langevin
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latta
     Lawson (FL)
     Lewis (MN)
     Lieu, Ted
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Loebsack
     Long
     Loudermilk
     Love
     Lowey
     Lucas
     Luetkemeyer
     Lujan Grisham, M.
     Lujan, Ben Ray
     Lynch
     MacArthur
     Maloney, Carolyn B.
     Maloney, Sean
     Marchant
     Marino
     Marshall
     Mast
     McCarthy
     McCaul
     McCollum
     McEachin
     McHenry
     McKinley
     McMorris Rodgers
     McNerney
     McSally
     Meadows
     Meehan
     Messer
     Mitchell
     Moolenaar
     Mooney (WV)
     Moulton
     Mullin
     Murphy (FL)
     Murphy (PA)
     Newhouse
     Noem
     Nolan
     Norcross
     Norman
     Nunes
     O'Halleran
     O'Rourke
     Olson
     Palazzo
     Palmer
     Panetta
     Pascrell
     Paulsen
     Pearce
     Pelosi
     Perlmutter
     Perry
     Peters
     Peterson
     Pingree
     Pittenger
     Poe (TX)
     Poliquin
     Posey
     Quigley
     Ratcliffe
     Reed
     Reichert
     Renacci
     Rice (NY)
     Rice (SC)
     Roby
     Roe (TN)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rohrabacher
     Rokita
     Rooney, Francis
     Rooney, Thomas J.
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Rosen
     Roskam
     Ross
     Rothfus
     Rouzer
     Roybal-Allard
     Royce (CA)
     Ruiz
     Ruppersberger
     Rush
     Russell
     Rutherford
     Ryan (OH)
     Sanford
     Sarbanes
     Schiff
     Schneider
     Schweikert
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, Austin
     Scott, David
     Sensenbrenner
     Sessions
     Sewell (AL)
     Shea-Porter
     Shimkus
     Shuster
     Simpson
     Sinema
     Sires
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Smucker
     Soto
     Stefanik
     Stewart
     Stivers
     Suozzi
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (MS)
     Thompson (PA)
     Thornberry
     Tiberi
     Tipton
     Titus
     Torres
     Trott
     Turner
     Upton
     Valadao
     Veasey
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Walden
     Walker
     Walorski
     Walters, Mimi
     Walz
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters, Maxine
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Wenstrup
     Westerman
     Williams
     Wilson (FL)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Woodall
     Yoder
     Yoho
     Young (AK)
     Young (IA)
     Zeldin

                                NOES--81

     Adams
     Amash
     Barragan
     Bass
     Blumenauer
     Bonamici
     Butterfield
     Capuano
     Carson (IN)
     Chu, Judy
     Cicilline
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Cohen
     Conyers
     Crowley
     DeFazio
     DeGette
     DeSaulnier
     Doyle, Michael F.
     Duncan (TN)
     Ellison
     Eshoo
     Espaillat
     Fudge
     Gabbard
     Garrett
     Gohmert
     Gomez
     Griffith
     Grijalva
     Gutierrez
     Harris
     Huffman
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy
     Khanna
     Kildee
     Lawrence
     Lee
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lofgren
     Lowenthal
     Massie
     Matsui
     McClintock
     McGovern
     Meng
     Moore
     Nadler
     Neal
     Pallone
     Payne
     Pocan
     Polis
     Price (NC)
     Raskin
     Richmond
     Sanchez
     Schakowsky
     Schrader
     Serrano
     Sherman
     Slaughter
     Speier
     Swalwell (CA)
     Takano
     Thompson (CA)
     Tonko
     Tsongas
     Vargas
     Vela
     Velazquez
     Visclosky
     Watson Coleman
     Welch
     Yarmuth

                             NOT VOTING--8

     Bilirakis
     Cleaver
     Cummings
     Jones
     Labrador
     Meeks
     Napolitano
     Scalise


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1139

  So the bill was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``A bill to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.''.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.


                          personal explanation

  Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, I was absent during rollcall votes No. 
356 through No. 378 due to my spouse's health situation in California. 
Had I been present, I would have voted ``no'' on the Conaway Amendment, 
``yea'' on the Polis Amendment, ``yea'' on the Jayapal Amendment, 
``yea'' on the Nadler Amendment, ``yea'' on the Blumenauer Amendment, 
``yea'' on the Aguilar Amendment, ``no'' on the Rogers Amendment, 
``yea'' on the Garamendi Amendment, ``yea'' on the Blumenauer Amendment 
No. 13, ``no'' on the McClintock Amendment, ``yea'' on the Garamendi 
Amendment, ``no'' on the Buck Amendment, ``no'' on the Perry Amendment, 
``no'' on the Harztler Amendment, ``no'' on the Gosar Amendment, ``no'' 
on the Rooney Amendment, ``no'' on the Franks Amendment, ``no'' on the 
Lamborn Amendment, ``no'' on the Byrne Amendment, ``no'' on the Hunter 
Amendment, and ``yea'' on the McGovern Amendment. I would have also 
voted ``yea'' on the Motion to Recommit. I would have also voted ``no'' 
on final passage of H.R. 2810--National Defense Authorization Act of 
Fiscal Year 2018.

                          ____________________



