

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3642]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE VERMONT LEAGUE OF CITIES AND TOWNS

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, in Vermont, we believe in forging resilient 
communities through strong local governments and in fostering well-
informed leaders to understand and respond to the many complex issues 
facing us today. The Vermont League of Cities and Towns, VLCT, embodies 
these principles and more, and I am delighted to contribute in honoring 
the league and its members on its 50th anniversary.
  Established in 1967, the VLCT was created to help improve local 
governance. Local officials needed a way to help towns best serve their 
constituents and to connect members of their communities with their 
local governments. In response, a handful of municipalities formed the 
organization that provided these services. Beginning with VLCT's first 
executive director and continuing through today, this organization has 
consistently worked to represent the values of all Vermonters. For the 
first time in 1995, every city and town in Vermont had joined as 
members of VLCT, demonstrating how valuable this institution is for all 
of our communities regardless of their size.
  For many years, I too have worked alongside VLCT to improve the lives 
of Vermonters. Whether through their efforts supporting the State's 
recovery from Tropical Storm Irene or improving the water quality of 
Vermont's rivers and streams, their dedication to Vermont's way of life 
and quality of life makes us all better. They provide direction and 
advice and support our municipalities in their timely and important but 
often underfunded responsibilities.
  As a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, VLCT will always be there 
to support us, to support Vermont communities. Our great State is made 
better by the involvement of organizations like the VLCT, and I wish 
them continued success over the next 50 years in bettering the lives of 
all Vermonters.

                          ____________________



