

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4518]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        FOSTER YOUTH SHADOW DAY

  (Mr. HILL asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the struggles that 
foster youth encounter, and to celebrate their perseverance and 
fortitude as they attempt to navigate this complicated system and 
transition to adulthood.
  In Arkansas, we have over 5,000 children currently in the State's 
foster care system.
  I am proud to work with my colleagues on the Congressional Caucus on 
Foster Youth to shed light on the perpetuation of poverty and 
dysfunction our current system enables. And I stand proudly in support 
of House Resolution 314, recognizing May as National Foster Care Month.
  For the past 2 years, I have had the opportunity to have a former 
foster youth personally shadow me for a day. What a rewarding 
experience.
  This year, I am honored to host Starr Wilson, a former foster youth 
from my district. After spending 10 years in foster care, Starr, who is 
full of drive and passion, graduated with honors from the University of 
Arkansas at Pine Bluff.
  Unlike Starr's story, though, when many youth across America age out 
of the system, they find themselves with no place to call home, and 
they lack the encouragement and structure they need to pursue 
happiness.
  Therefore, I am proud to stand with the Congressional Caucus on 
Foster Youth in praise of the Sixth Annual Foster Youth Shadow Day here 
on Capitol Hill, which allows these youth to come across our country 
and share time with Members of Congress, and aspire to be the leaders 
of generations to come.

                          ____________________



