

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3358-S3359]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 TRIBUTE TO COLONEL DANIEL Q. GREENWOOD

 Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and 
congratulate a tremendous Marine officer, Col. Daniel Q. Greenwood, for 
his distinguished service as the commanding officer, 2d Marine 
Regiment, 2d Marine Division

[[Page S3359]]

and commanding officer, Special Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force, 
SPMAGTF--Crisis Response--Africa. Colonel Greenwood's dynamic 
leadership and operational expertise brought about historic success for 
his unit and was instrumental to the accomplishment of priority U.S. 
national security objectives throughout Europe and Africa.
  After taking command in April 2016, Colonel Greenwood aptly led a 
fine team of marines during their predeployment training, ensuring a 
cohesive and highly effective regiment that was able to singularly 
focus on mission requirements. His clear and concise guidance set the 
tone for the entire command, successfully focused the regimental 
headquarters, and enabled a positive command climate with open lines of 
communication and a constructive learning environment.
  Upon deploying in October 2016, Colonel Greenwood's excellent 
leadership and operational prowess brought about continued 
organizational and operational achievements, to include his team's 
successful participation in multiple operations and 15 theater security 
cooperation engagements across the continent of Africa. Further, his 
vibrant personality and intuitive understanding of cultural 
complexities fostered alliances with key partner nations, building 
valuable partner capability and enduring relationships. One of the most 
significant accomplishments of the SPMAGTF was the assessment of ``high 
risk, high threat'' U.S. embassies in West and North Africa. To prepare 
for crisis response actions, Colonel Greenwood personally interacted 
with multiple ambassadors and regional security officers to form 
essential relationships and facilitate necessary information sharing. 
His tireless efforts allowed current and future SPMAGTF rotations to 
develop feasible, supportable, and comprehensive contingency plans for 
these strategic posts.
  I would also like to honor and thank the Greenwood family for their 
tremendous service and sacrifice during the past year. Colonel 
Greenwood's operational success was only possible because of the 
tireless support he received at home from his wife, Kim, and son, 
Charlie. We often forget the hardship and extra load our military 
spouses and children take on during work-ups and deployments, and I 
thank Kim and Charlie for sharing their husband and father with our 
Nation. Military service is a family commitment, and I thank the 
Greenwoods for their many years of public service.
  Colonel Greenwood, congratulations on a successful command and 
deployment. I am so proud of your many accomplishments and wish you and 
your family the very best in your next assignment.

                          ____________________



