

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4108]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 McKINNEY-VENTO HOMELESS ASSISTANCE ACT

  Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, July 22, 2017, marks the 30th anniversary 
of the enactment of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, our 
Nation's landmark law designed to prevent and address homelessness. 
Many communities in my home State of Washington and across the country 
are confronting a surge in homeless and housing-insecure individuals, 
and the resources brought to bear by McKinney-Vento are essential to 
continued progress. The McKinney-Vento Act also marked the first time 
that Congress provided dedicated funding to ensure equal educational 
opportunities for children and youth who are experiencing homelessness. 
The law requires States and school districts to remove barriers that 
homeless children and youth face in receiving a high-quality education. 
In the years since the McKinney-Vento Act was passed, hundreds of 
thousands of young people experiencing homelessness have received the 
supports they need in order to attend school, graduate, and secure a 
well-paying job that can provide for their families.
  I am proud to have introduced and seen enacted legislation to remove 
barriers and provide support to homeless children and youth, from early 
childhood through postsecondary education. Many of these laws have 
codified best practices pioneered by dedicated Washington State 
educators determined to make a difference for homeless children and 
youth.
  I have fought and continue to fight for funding that makes a 
difference for homeless children and youth, veterans and other adults, 
and families experiencing homelessness. I ask my colleagues to join me 
in celebrating the success of the McKinney-Vento Act and recognizing 
how far we still have to go in order to solve our homelessness crisis 
and make sure that every child in our country has access to a quality 
education no matter where they live, how they learn, or how much money 
their parents make.

                          ____________________



