

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4613-S4614]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO PETER JOHN CAMINO

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I wish to speak on behalf of Peter John 
Camino, who is being inducted into the Wyoming Agriculture Hall of 
Fame. Every year since 1992, Wyoming has recognized individuals who 
have made substantial contributions to agriculture in our State. As a 
third-generation rancher dedicating much of his life to Wyoming's 
agriculture industry, Peter John is well deserving of this honor.
  Peter John grew up on his ranch that his grandfather founded near 
Buffalo, WY. After attending college, he joined

[[Page S4614]]

the military and served honorably for several years. Ultimately, the 
ranch lifestyle called him home and he returned to Wyoming to take over 
the family operation. Peter John has said the sheep business was 
thriving upon his return and fondly remembers the community support and 
good times.
  Fortunately for Wyoming, Peter John not only stuck with the 
agriculture industry during the good times, but took on leadership 
positions and persevered through the hard times as well. Peter John 
served as president of the Wyoming Wool Growers Association and played 
a crucial role in strengthening the organization. He has been described 
by coworkers and friends as a courageous leader who would always take 
time to listen to members of the organization. As president, he guided 
the sheep industry through some tough times and advocated for its cause 
at the local and Federal levels.
  Leadership, courage, and collaboration are only some of the admirable 
qualities Peter John possesses. He has also shown dedication and 
selflessness while volunteering in his community and passing on his 
knowledge of the agriculture industry to younger generations. In 
addition to volunteering with his church and Knights of Columbus, 
serving on the board for Johnson County Fire District, and advising the 
University of Wyoming's Sheep Program, he also serves as sheep 
superintendent for the Johnson County Fair and often invites schoolkids 
to his ranch to teach them about ranching, the sheep industry, and the 
value of wool.
  I want to extend my congratulations to Mr. Camino and thank him for 
his service and years of hard work. Peter John truly lives the ``Code 
of the West,'' and I am proud to have the opportunity to recognize his 
achievements as an inductee into the Wyoming Agriculture Hall of Fame. 
Wyoming is well served by his lasting and continuing contributions to 
our State.

                          ____________________



