

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2913-S2914]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

         RECOGNIZING THE RUTGERS UNIVERSITY-NEWARK DEBATE TEAM

 Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Rutgers University-Newark senior debate team of Nicole Nave and Devane 
Murphy as they celebrate back-to-back national championships with their 
victories at the National Debate Tournament, NDT, and the Cross 
Examination Debate Association National Tournament this year.
  Last year, I stood on this floor to recognize Rutgers University-
Newark's victory at the National Debate Tournament at the University of 
Missouri-Kansas City. This year, I am extremely proud to be here once 
again congratulating Rutgers-Newark on another collegiate National 
Debate Tournament championship. This is truly an impressive and 
historic accomplishment. It is only the second time in collegiate 
debate history that the same team has won both national championships 
in a single year.
  In addition to the national championship, Nicole Nave and Devane 
Murphy were also honored individually at the National Debate Tournament 
this year. Devane was named the NDT's top speaker, and Nicole received 
the NDT second place speaker award. At this year's Cross Examination 
Debate Association National tournament, Nicole earned a record-
shattering five perfect scores out of eight. Nicole and Devane, the two 
best collegiate debaters in America, use their life experiences to 
shape their uniquely Rutgers-Newark debate style, one which has led the 
Rutgers University-Newark team to remain ranked as the No. 1 team in 
the Nation.
  The Rutgers University-Newark debate team, founded in 2008, is 
sponsored by the school of public affairs and administration and the 
office of the chancellor, Newark. Under the leadership of

[[Page S2914]]

Rutgers University-Newark chancellor Nancy Canton, debate director 
Christopher Kozak, and debate team head coach Willie Johnson, the team 
has been ranked first in the Northeast for 4 consecutive years. In the 
2014-2015 year, the team was ranked 14th nationally. Nicole, Devane, 
and the rest of the Rutgers University-Newark debate team have brought 
pride to my beloved city of Newark and to the entire State of New 
Jersey. I am honored to join with these outstanding students, their 
families, and the Rutgers University-Newark community in celebrating 
another landmark achievement in the Rutgers University-Newark debate 
team's history.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



