

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6045-H6046]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              HONORING REVEREND DR. HOWARD W. PARKER, JR.

  (Mr. BUTTERFIELD asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to honor the 
Reverend Dr. Howard W. Parker, Jr., who has served as pastor of 
historic Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church located in Greenville, 
North Carolina, for more than 35 years, and will soon retire.
  The son of Howard and Bernice Parker, Dr. Parker excelled 
academically, attending Shaw University, Winston-Salem State 
University, Wake Forest University, and United Christian College, 
ultimately receiving a master of divinity degree and an honorary doctor 
of divinity degree.
  Under his devoted leadership, Mr. Speaker, Sycamore Hill Missionary 
Baptist Church has grown in membership and has become a giant in the 
Greenville community. In addition to leading his congregation, Dr. 
Parker served as president of the North Carolina General Baptist State 
Convention, which represents more than a half a million Missionary 
Baptists in 1,700 North Carolina congregations.
  Dr. Parker's commitment to the community has stretched far beyond the 
pulpit. He was twice elected to the Pitt County Board of Education and 
served as the board's chair. He serves as associate chaplain of the 
Greenville Police Department and is a member of the Greenville 
Initiative on Gang Violence.
  Dr. Parker is married to the former Ruby LaVerna Grantham from 
Goldsboro. They are the proud parents of two adult children, Kelly and 
Andrea.
  His distinguished career and life of unselfish and dedicated service 
to mankind has positively impacted the lives of so many. His 
contributions to the community are far and wide, and too numerous to 
mention.
  I ask my colleagues this morning to join me in honoring Reverend Dr. 
Howard W. Parker, Jr., and thank him for his important service to God 
and humanity. We wish him well in the years to come.

[[Page H6046]]

  

                          ____________________



