

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4514]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               HONORING DR. TOD BURNETT ON HIS RETIREMENT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Mrs. Mimi Walters) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor 
of Dr. Tod Burnett, who is retiring as president of Saddleback College 
in Mission Viejo, California.
  Since 2008, when Dr. Burnett was named the ninth president of 
Saddleback, he has transformed the college into one of the top higher 
education institutions in California and the country.
  Over the last 9 years, Dr. Burnett established partnerships with 
local school districts, supported adult education programs, and 
pioneered the development of comprehensive support services for 
veterans, Active-Duty military, and their families.
  Prior to his time at Saddleback, Dr. Burnett was appointed to several 
government positions, serving in the administrations of a U.S. 
President, a Governor, and mayor. He also served as vice chancellor of 
the California Community Colleges, the largest higher education system 
in the Nation.
  More importantly, Dr. Burnett's involvement in the community outside 
of work has left a lasting impression on those who know him. He has 
mentored veterans, personally funded student trips to Washington, and 
dedicated resources to various programs throughout the region.
  Dr. Burnett's generosity and commitment to his community and career 
has transformed the lives of countless individuals at Saddleback 
College and throughout Orange County.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. Burnett for his decades of work and 
dedication to service of the people of California, and I wish him well 
during his much-deserved retirement.

                          ____________________



