

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H3076-H3077]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         HONORING LYDIA STRUNK

  (Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin asked and was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I rise today because this is 
Lydia Strunk's last week working on the House floor.
  Before I talk about Lydia, I want to talk about the work that she and 
all the people here on the floor do for us, for the people's House, on 
both sides of the aisle. They are the ones who keep the floor running 
on time on a day-to-day basis. They make sure that the votes are 
counted and conducted impartially. They make sure that every Member, 
majority and minority, is treated fairly. And though the hours are long 
and unpredictable, they always set a fantastic tone of decorum.
  No one better exemplifies this professionalism than Lydia Strunk. She 
has been a part of this institution since 2008, when she started out in 
the Republican Cloakroom. We all knew her so well then and enjoyed 
watching her rise to these great responsibilities that she now holds.
  For more than 4 years now, Lydia has served as the Speaker's deputy 
floor director. As it turns out, she accepted this job on the night of 
her wedding. How is that for commitment?

  Lydia's quiet dedication to the people's House comes through in 
almost everything that she does; and because she does her job so well, 
almost no one ever notices. Think about it. If you ever wondered how a 
joint meeting with a foreign leader or a State of the Union goes off 
without a hitch, it is because of Lydia's doing.
  One of her jobs, of course, is to keep us on schedule. So I will make 
one last point before she tells me to wrap this up, because I assume 
that is what she will be doing in a minute.
  I want to thank Lydia's family. I want to thank Lydia's husband, 
Jeff, and I want to thank, in particular, her children.
  Graham and Evie, I want you to know that your mother is an incredible 
public servant. She has done so much for us, for this country and this 
institution, and we are grateful to you for sharing your mom--and your 
wife--with us. This whole House is in her debt.

[[Page H3077]]

  

                          ____________________



