

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4706]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    IN HONOR OF DEPUTY DEVIN HODGES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Duncan) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of 
Anderson County Master Deputy Devin Hodges, who tragically passed away 
June 1 in the line of duty while participating in a training exercise 
on Lake Hartwell.
  Deputy Hodges pursued his childhood dream and started his law 
enforcement career out of high school working as a dispatcher in 
Anderson County, then working for the Laurens County Sheriff's Office, 
the Abbeville County Sheriff's Office, and the Lander Police Department 
before returning to Anderson in January of this year.
  As Anderson County Sheriff Chad McBride said, Devin had a big 
personality and a big heart, and it is a big loss. Devin was a man of 
character, a man of faith, who was known as a great father.
  My thoughts and prayers are with Devin's wife, Krystal; his four 
children, Jeffrey, James, Katie, and Dianna; his brother, Christopher; 
his sister, Dominique; and his parents, Shari and Ronnie; all of whom 
are constituents in my district, the Third District of South Carolina.
  I know Devin is in a better place right now, joining his predeceased 
daughter, Isabella Faith, but the family he leaves behind will still 
acutely feel his loss, as we always do with the loss of a loved one.
  I want to let the men and women in Anderson County law enforcement 
know that they continue to be in our prayers in this tragedy, as always 
with first responders, in our thoughts and our prayers.
  So may God bless Devin's family, and may He continue to bless our 
country with stouthearted men and women like Devin, who are willing to 
make the ultimate sacrifice in order to protect us.

                          ____________________



