

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6220]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING THE LIFE OF TROY BOWLING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Barr) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of an American 
patriot and hero, Mr. Troy Bowling of Lexington, Kentucky, who 
completed his life's service on June 17, 2017, at the age of 90 years 
old.
  His military service during World War II and his commitment to 
supporting our veterans and the men and women in uniform throughout his 
life is an inspiration to us all.
  At the age of 19, Mr. Bowling began his service as a United States 
marine and was a proud member of the Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 27th 
Marines, 5th Division. During the United States campaign to end the war 
against Japan, Mr. Bowling's unit was among the first to arrive on the 
beachheads of Iwo Jima.
  While attempting to secure Mount Suribachi, his unit came under 
intense and concentrated fire, completely overwhelming his unit. Two 
projectiles struck Mr. Bowling in the chest and leg, leaving him 
critically wounded on the battlefield.
  At that moment, Mr. Bowling said he looked to the heavens and 
committed to serving mankind for the rest of his life if he survived. 
Miraculously, a combat photographer and medical team then carried Mr. 
Bowling to the safety of a landing craft, where he witnessed the 
planting of the American flag atop Mount Suribachi, an iconic image 
that persists as one of the most legendary and triumphant moments of 
the war. The U.S. Marines eventually took control of the island. 
However, this victory came at a heavy cost, as over 6,800 U.S. 
servicemembers gave their lives during the battle of Iwo Jima.
  In keeping faith with his commitment to God made during that battle, 
Mr. Bowling devoted over 78,000 hours of volunteer service to others at 
the Lexington VA Medical Center. For over 66 years, Mr. Bowling rose 
through the ranks within the Disabled American Veterans organization, 
holding nearly every position possible, including State commander.

                              {time}  1030

  The Bible teaches in Proverbs 21:21 that ``He who pursues 
righteousness and love finds life, prosperity, and honor.''
  Mr. Bowling has brought great honor upon himself through his 
dedication, determination, and love for serving the people of our 
community. Without a doubt, he has remained true to the commitment he 
made on the rocky terrain of Iwo Jima.
  Mr. Bowling embodies the best of American ideals, values, and 
commitment to serving others, never abandoning the Marine motto of 
semper fidelis, ``always faithful.''
  On behalf of a grateful nation, I would like to thank Mr. Bowling, a 
model member of the greatest generation, for his many years of service 
to our country and our community. He is truly an outstanding American 
and an inspiration to us all.
  Troy Bowling, may you rest in peace.

                          ____________________



