

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3729]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    RECOGNIZING TONGUE RIVER WINERY

 Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this week I have the distinct honor 
of recognizing the team at the Tongue River Winery, in Custer County, 
for having the skill, patience, and dedication required to produce 
quality wines on the high plains of eastern Montana. Despite a 
difficult growing climate, this humble, family-run operation has 
successfully combined vineyard and winery functions and has received 
numerous awards and recognition for their efforts.
  The married couple of Bob and Marilyn Thaden, along with their son 
Josh, are the team that makes the Tongue River Winery successful; 2017 
marks the fifth consecutive year that the Tongue River Winery has won 
the Granite Peak Award. This award is presented to the top Montana 
winery at the Northwest Wine Summit.
  For Bob, this year marks his 50th anniversary making wine. It has 
also been about 50 years since he met his wife, Marilyn, so it comes as 
no surprise that, when asked about winemaking, he compares the process 
of selecting good grapes to courtship. Bob reflected, ``it's like 
courtship, plant the wrong one and you will regret it for a long time; 
take your time, choose carefully, so not to be disappointed later on.'' 
Bob has selected wisely in both endeavors. His advice on being 
thoughtful and patient can be applied to many other areas of life.
  In the years ahead, I wish Bob, Marilyn, and Josh all the best as 
they continue to cultivate and create uniquely Montana wines. For their 
efforts, I raise my glass to the team at the Tongue River 
Winery.

                          ____________________



