

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4643]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          OUR WORD IS OUR BOND

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, our word is our bond.
  The United States, when it engages internationally with our allies 
and friends, and even our enemies, our word is our bond.
  The meetings that the administration had recently in Saudi Arabia, I 
am sure there were some positive results, but there is no positive 
result to the disruption that is now occurring between Mideast 
countries and Qatar.
  Qatar has some of our military assets that are enormously important. 
Rumor has it that the administration may be thinking of a regime 
change. Yes, we have had our concerns with Qatar. We have been 
concerned about human rights or concerned about various positions with 
Al Jazeera, but we have worked with them, and we have realized that the 
emir, over the years, has worked with us in an honest and decent way 
and treated their people in a manner of decency.
  I hope this is straightened out. They can't be starved. We cannot 
continue to encourage or be part of any disruption in that region. We 
need them to collaborate against terrorism. We do not need one being 
fought by others.
  I would ask that the administration straighten this out, working with 
those of us who are concerned about our friends in Qatar, and to 
recognize that there is no specializing and isolating and picking 
friends. We have to work with all of them in that region to fight 
against the terror in Iran.
  I would offer, again, my acknowledgment of D-Day and thank those who 
sacrificed their lives. God bless them.

                          ____________________



