

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2719]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                    REMEMBERING JAMES AND JOE PRATT

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I would like to remember two 
brothers from my hometown of Marietta, GA, James and Joe Pratt, whose 
lives were cut short in a tragic accident on April 24, 2017.
  James and Joe were upstanding students in their community and at 
Lassiter High School, where they were both members of the Junior 
Reserve Officers Training Corps. They were loved by their family, and 
they were beloved by their friends, advisers, and coworkers.
  James, called ``Jim'' by those who knew him, was 18 years old and 
just a few weeks shy of high school graduation. He was the JROTC unit's 
morale and wellness officer, and Jim had already enlisted in the U.S. 
Marine Corps. He was looking forward to beginning boot camp in a short 
time and later to attending Kennesaw State University.
  Joe was a 14-year-old freshman and, in addition to attending school, 
served in the JROTC unit and was known for helping keep his friends' 
spirits lighthearted with his knowledge of trivia and sense of humor.
  Their unit of the JROTC, the Lassiter-Pope-Kell Navy JROTC, armed 
exhibition drill team has performed annually at our Georgia 
congressional delegation's Military Academy Day. Out of respect for 
these young men, their unit did not perform at this year's event, held 
last Saturday, April 29, and instead, we held a moment of silence in 
their honor.
  Lassiter High School and our community is in mourning over the loss 
of these fine brothers. My deepest condolences go out to the entire 
Pratt and Lago families and to our community, and my wife, Dianne, and 
I hold them in our prayers.

                          ____________________



