

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3008]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           RECOGNIZING PENN MEDICINE'S MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
incredible actions of a group of individuals in my community.
  On April 3, 2017, an amazing physician and amazing mother, Amy Reed, 
experienced what should have been a catastrophic cardiac arrest at Penn 
Medicine's community radiology center in Yardley, Pennsylvania. Yet, 
because of the amazing efforts of a series of professionals, Amy 
survived this event.
  I would like to recognize the following individuals:
  The advanced life support paramedics from the Yardley-Newtown area, 
Mr. Mark Horner and Mr. Chris Adams;
  St. Mary Medical Center's cardiac surgeon, Dr. Veluz, and the entire 
cardiac surgery, anesthesia, and perfusion team at the St. Mary Medical 
Center in Langhorne, Pennsylvania;
  The PennSTAR trauma critical care air rescue helicopter crew, Ms. 
Shiloh Kramer, Mr. John Goddard, and Mr. George Huey;
  Cardiac critical care nurses, Ms. Coleen Nicolosi, Ms. Darian 
Parkinson, and Ms. Laura Glorioso-Moyer, who took intensive care of Dr. 
Reed in her initial resuscitation.
  Thereafter, a corps of highly specialized surgical critical care 
nurses played an intensive role in her ongoing recovery. Mr. David 
Alfano, Ms. Carrie Brewster, Ms. Rachael Coyle, Ms. Catherine 
DeLaurentis, Mr. Michael Duca, Ms. Christina Felix, Ms. Cortney 
Johnson, Ms. Anita McAlee, Ms. Erin McCormick, Mr. Sebastian Romagnano, 
Ms. Lina Sivadasan, Ms. Christine Steffon, Ms. Joann Vernon, Ms. Gina 
Vizzarri, Ms. Meghan Welsh, and Ms. Danielle Wright all are to be 
commended for their professionalism and extreme skill in recovering Dr. 
Reed and giving her a second chance at life.
  After 5 days in a coma, Amy has emerged and is neurologically intact. 
The actions of these professionals led to Amy's life being saved. Their 
conduct can only be characterized as heroic.
  Amy is loved by family and many friends in Bucks County, and by many 
thousands more across the United States for her role as a champion and 
a spokeswoman for women's health and patient safety. And because of the 
efforts of the medical professionals who saved her life, I have the 
opportunity to continue working with Amy to advance her crucial 
mission.

                          ____________________



