

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING MICHAEL GORDON

 Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I would like to pay tribute to the 
memory of a man who was a great friend of mine: Dr. Michael Gordon.
  A professor at the University of Miami, Michael's love for medicine 
and people impacted the lives of so many, both inside the classroom and 
out. Michael first came to Florida in 1960 and eventually returned in 
1966 to teach at the Miller School of Medicine at the University of 
Miami, a move that would keep him in the Sunshine State for the rest of 
his life. His tenacity intelligence led to critical medical 
breakthroughs, But it didn't come easily.
  Michael's first invention, ``Harvey''--the cardiopulmonary patient 
simulator used across the globe--was initially viewed with contempt and 
suspicion amongst his contemporaries. But that did not discourage 
Michael. And thank God for that, because the once-ridiculed invention 
has since been used by many in the field of cardiology around the 
world. His relentlessness and ambition served as a testament to his 
character. He was a man with unfailing dedication to the well-being of 
others.
  He also created UMedic, a system fostering research and learning in 
cardiology. Michael also devised training for first responders, which 
undoubtedly saved many lives over the years. He founded the Medical 
Training and Simulation Laboratory, which was eventually named the 
Michael S. Gordon Center for Research in Medical Education. The center 
focused on the mission of improving medical techniques and training 
paramedics and firefighters.
  So many of us in the Miami-Dade community cherish his memory. While 
some in our community may never know his name, their loved ones may 
very well be saved by one of his innovations or the training he 
provided to first responders. Over the course of his life, Michael 
would bear many titles, including professor, mentor, innovator, doctor, 
inventor, friend, father, grandfather, and husband. To put it simply 
and quite literally; his friendship and passion touched many.
  I am proud to have known such a tremendous human being and benefactor 
to the Miami community. My wife Jeanette and I will forever miss him 
and we join our friends at the University of Miami and his family in 
honoring his legacy.
  May God bless him, his family, and those who continue his mission of 
saving lives and advancing medicine.

                          ____________________



