

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4626]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       HONORING DR. GAIL CARBERRY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 
accomplishments of Dr. Gail Carberry of Quinsigamond Community College 
in Worcester, Massachusetts, who will be retiring after a decade of 
tireless service to the QCC family and over 40 years of inspiring 
students across the Commonwealth.
  From early on, Dr. Carberry recognized the impact one committed 
teacher can make in a young person's life. She understands at her core 
that community colleges present a transformative opportunity for 
students to be recognized for their talents and encouraged toward their 
goals.
  Dr. Carberry is a passionate advocate for expanding access to the 
opportunities that community colleges can provide. Because of Dr. 
Carberry's conviction that every student can achieve, QCC implemented a 
high school dropout prevention program, and Dr. Carberry personally 
endowed over $200,000 in scholarships for local community college 
students. She diversified the students, faculty, and staff populations 
to better reflect the community and implemented award-winning STEM 
programs to prepare students for the rapidly changing 21st century 
workplace.
  In keeping with her desire to equip her students with the skills they 
need to compete in the modern workforce, Dr. Carberry successfully 
opened a 72,000-square-foot campus in downtown Worcester dedicated to 
the college's healthcare program, which not only addressed the needs of 
QCC students, but reinvigorated a large portion of downtown Worcester.
  As a result of Dr. Carberry's leadership, QCC has become a leading 
institution of higher learning in Massachusetts. This year, QCC 
graduated almost double the number of students it did only 10 years 
ago. Dr. Carberry has exceeded fundraising goals and has increased 
enrollment by nearly 40 percent.
  Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the city of Worcester, on behalf of the 
people of Massachusetts, and most importantly of all, on behalf of the 
students she has helped to achieve their dreams, I want to say thank 
you to Dr. Gail Carberry. We all owe her a heartfelt debt of gratitude 
and wish her great satisfaction in her endeavors to come.

                          ____________________



