

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5167]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               CBO SCORE

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as many families were making their way 
home or picking up children from either school or some daycare that 
they had to be in, the CBO report came out on the unfortunate 
representation of healthcare from the United States Senate. I think the 
most striking comment to be made is that, by 2026, with this healthcare 
bill of sorts, 49 million Americans will lose their insurance.
  To add to the insult of those working families picking up children 
and trying to make ends meet with the dinners that they will be 
preparing, hoping that the Federal Government would take care of them, 
the President of the United States indicated that he hopes that the 
Affordable Care Act that now has helped insure millions of Americans 
would crash and burn, crash and burn because he has strangled the 
subsidies. He has made sure that the insurance companies do not have 
stability, and he has decreased the amount of people who can get the 
expanded Medicaid.
  I am sad when the President of the United States who should be the 
chief comforter, the person who takes care of Americans, takes great 
glee that 49 million people will be thrown off of insurance, without 
insurance by 2026 under TrumpCare in the House and TrumpCare in the 
Senate.
  Democrats know how to fix this. I would hope that the Republicans and 
the President of the United States get off the special interests and 
stand with the American people.
  Save our healthcare. Stop taking away our healthcare.

                          ____________________



