

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4052]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          RECOGNIZING UNIDOSUS

  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize UnidosUS 
for its leadership on behalf of the Latino community. On July 25, 2017, 
the Coalition on Human Needs will honor UnidosUS, formerly known as the 
National Council of La Raza, as one of its Human Needs Heroes for 2017. 
For almost 50 years, UnidosUS has been at the forefront of the policy 
movement to build opportunity for Latinos through civil rights, 
education, housing, economic advancement, health care, and the defense 
of immigrants' rights.
  UnidosUS ensures that the human face of immigration is always seen 
and the essential role of immigrants in our communities is understood. 
I am proud to work with UnidosUS to advance a fair and moral 
immigration policy. I am also proud to work with UnidosUS in advancing 
economic opportunities for Latinos throughout our communities and look 
forward to our close cooperation in the future.
  UnidosUS has a long record of promoting just policies to improve the 
lives of those in the Latino community. From the Immigration Reform and 
Control Act of 1986 to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, 
DACA, program, UnidosUS has been a trusted source and advocate on 
immigration policy. The ability of UnidosUS to serve as a broad voice 
that reflects the views and needs of Latinos across the country ensures 
that the debate on immigration never forgets the impact on families and 
communities. It is my honor today to recognize UnidosUS and thank them 
for all they have done on behalf of Latinos and immigrants.

                          ____________________



