

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4224]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I have 7 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 25, 2017 at 
8:30 am, in 106 Dirksen Senate Office Building, in order to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``Commodities, Credit, and Crop Insurance: 
Perspectives on Risk Management Tools and Trends for the 2018 Farm 
Bill.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on July 25, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Nominations.''


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, 
July 25, 2017 from 2:30 pm, in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart Office 
Building to hold a Closed Business Meeting followed by a Closed Member 
Briefing.


                        Subcommittee on Seapower

  The Subcommittee on Seapower of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 
25, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open session, to receive testimony on 
options and considerations for achieving a 355-ship Navy from naval 
analysts.


     Subcommittee on Ocean, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 25, 
2017, at 10 AM in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building. The 
Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Efforts on Marine Debris 
in the Oceans and Great Lakes.''


              Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety

  The Subcommittee on Clean air and Nuclear Safety of the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works be authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Tuesday, July 25, 2017, at 10 AM, in Room 406 of the 
Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a hearing entitled, 
``Developing and Deploying Advanced Clean Energy Technologies.''


    Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cyber 
                            Security Policy

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the 
Pacific, and International Cyber Security Policy is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, July 25, 2017 at 2:30 
p.m., to hold a hearing entitled ``Assessing the Maximum Pressure and 
Engagement Policy toward North Korea.''

                          ____________________



