

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3729-S3730]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  200TH ANNIVERSARY OF UTICA, MICHIGAN

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 200th 
anniversary of the city of Utica, MI. The bicentennial celebration is a 
historical benchmark for Utica, as well as the State of Michigan.
  Located in Macomb County and often referred to as a small town with 
city amenities, Utica residents have always prided themselves on their 
high level of community involvement, rich heritage, and family-oriented 
values. After 200

[[Page S3730]]

years of change and growth, the city remains embodied in that local 
spirit.
  Founded by Canadian pioneer Thomas Squire in 1817 and formally 
incorporated in 1838, Utica has a rich history. In the early pioneer 
days, settlers and farmers from across the United States traveled to 
Utica due to its close proximity to the Clinton River. At the time, 
Utica was known by various names, including McDougalville, Hog Hollow, 
and Harlow. It was not until 1829 when Americans from New York State 
began moving to the area and changed the name to Utica, after their 
home city. Utica gained the status of village in 1838 and was among one 
of the first towns in Michigan to do so.
  The flourishing village experienced great economic growth from the 
agricultural industry, as well as the construction of the Detroit 
United Railway, Wildcat Bank of Utica, and Clinton-Kalamazoo Canal. 
Tragically, in both 1904 and 1905, fires erupted across the village and 
destroyed many businesses, residences, and the renowned Exchange Hotel. 
However, Utica residents demonstrated their love and commitment to the 
city by building waterworks in 1926, gas mains in 1930, and sewers in 
1937. It was the same year, 1937, that Utica officially became a 
recognized city. It is testament to the longevity and vibrancy of the 
community that the Utica United Methodist Church, which was built in 
1839 by two of the first settlers, Nathaniel and Jemima Squires, still 
stands today.
  Today Utica is a vibrant community covering 1,114 acres of land, with 
affordable, safe housing, successful family-owned shops, and nationally 
recognized community schools. The city offers its residents a wide 
range of comprehensive and efficient services from festivals and 5K 
races, to senior nutrition programs and pinochle tournaments. Utica's 
fire and police department work hard to protect the city and its 
residents, as well as enhance the quality of life. In short, Utica is a 
great place to live, work, and play.
  The city of Utica has a rich history, dynamic present, and bright 
future. As Utica celebrates this milestone, I ask all my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating its residents, elected officials, and 
businesses as they celebrate their rich history. I wish the city 
continued growth and prosperity in the years ahead.

                          ____________________



