

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3341-S3342]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 9 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 
7, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building.


                          committee on finance

  The Committee on Finance is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, June 7, 2017, at 10:15 a.m., in 215 Dirksen 
Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing to consider pending 
nominations.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 7, 2017 at a time to be 
determined, to hold a business meeting.


        committee on homeland security and governmental affairs

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 
7, 2017, at 10 a.m. in order to conduct a hearing on the nomination of 
Brock Long.


                     committee on veterans' affairs

  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 7, 2017, at 2:30 p.m. in SR-
418, to conduct a hearing titled, ``Examining the Veterans Choice 
Program and the Future of Care in the Community.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, June 7, 2017 from 10 a.m., in room SH-216 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold an open hearing entitled ``FISA Amendments 
Act.''


                       committee on intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, June 7, 2017 from 2 p.m., in room SH-219 of the Senate Hart 
Office Building to hold a closed hearing.


                    subcommittee on strategic forces

  The Committee on Strategic Forces of the Committee on Armed Services 
is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
June 7,

[[Page S3342]]

2017, at 2:30 p.m., in open session, to receive testimony on Department 
of Defense nuclear acquisition programs and the nuclear doctrine.


  committee on energy and natural resources' subcommittee on national 
                                 parks

  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on 
National Parks is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate 
in order to hold a hearing on Wednesday, June 7, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in 
Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC.

                          ____________________



