

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3094]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 RECOGNIZING RUTH'S REUSABLE RESOURCES

 Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the efforts of 
Ruth Libby and her work with Ruth's Reusable Resources. Her 
organization operates in southern Maine and is dedicated to ensuring 
that students ranging from preschool to 12th grade are adequately 
prepared with the basic tools of learning.
  When Ruth Libby's son was in kindergarten, she received a note from 
his teacher requesting household items such as egg cartons, meat trays, 
and juice can lids for use in craft projects. Ruth responded to this 
request in full force and went above and beyond by not only getting 
supplies to her son's classroom, but also for other classrooms in the 
school. As time went on, she began receiving, sorting, and stocking 
products donated by corporations, businesses, and individuals for use 
by local classrooms. Ruth started by delivering these items to the 
school, and a few years later, she established a ``storeroom'' in her 
basement where teachers could come and ``shop'' at their convenience. 
With financial assistance from the Unum Group and a grant from the 
State of Maine Department of Education, Ruth was able to create a 
unique and effective nonprofit organization and relocate to the 
organization's current 21,000-square-foot warehouse and 7,000-square-
foot teacher store in Portland, ME.
  Since its inception in 1994, Ruth's Reusable Resources has provided 
more than $60 million worth of surplus furniture, paper, books, office 
supplies, and computers to nonprofits and schools. They have also 
received donated furniture, paper, books, office supplies, and 
computers from corporations, businesses, and individuals across the 
State of Maine. In turn, Ruth's Reusable Resources allows staff members 
of participating schools to ``shop'' for supplies at no charge. Ruth, 
together with a diverse group of hard-working volunteers, ranging from 
retired teachers, students, current teachers, corporate groups, 
retirees, court appointed volunteers, civic groups, collegiate 
ministries, and many more, work to ensure that every Maine student is 
provided with the necessary supplies to succeed in school.
  Ruth's Reusable Resources is a shining example of what can happen 
when you have determination and a passion to make a difference. Ruth is 
an outstanding example of a hard-working Mainer who is making a 
difference in her community and across our State. She has played an 
instrumental role in providing resources for classrooms in Maine which 
has furthered the education of many students. Thank you. Ruth, for all 
you have already done for both the students and their teachers in 
communities throughout Maine. I look forward to following your 
continued success.

                          ____________________



