

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3729]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

   50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE IDAHO NATIONAL LABORATORY'S ADVANCED TEST 
                                REACTOR

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, my colleague Senator Jim Risch joins 
me today in recognizing the Idaho National Laboratory's achievements in 
50 years of operation of the advanced test reactor. The success of the 
scientific mission of the advanced test reactor is a pride of Idaho and 
of the entire American nuclear science community.
  The advanced test reactor is a unique system designed to support 
multiple different experiments simultaneously. It can serve as a 
nuclear ``time machine'' by testing the stresses of nuclear power 20 
times faster than conventional systems. It is currently involved in 
research to convert weapons-grade nuclear material to reactor fuel. 
This will strengthen American energy independence.
  The U.S. Navy's nuclear propulsion program is a key customer of 
advanced test reactor research. It is one of many ways in which 
Idahoans contribute to our national security. The advanced test reactor 
is also the only American source for a particular isotope known as 
Cobalt-60. Cobalt-60 is vital for its use in modern brain cancer 
treatments and is saving the lives of Americans every day.
  Beyond these good works, the advanced test reactor is available to 
our universities. Our next generation of scientists has access to this 
unique system on the condition that their research be published for the 
benefit of the American public. Through this and other efforts, the 
Idaho National Laboratory works to support current and future 
generations.
  Congratulations to the dedicated men and women of the Idaho National 
Laboratory. They are the embodiment of American scientific achievement 
and leadership in nuclear research.

                          ____________________



