

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3963]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I have 11 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                      committee on armed services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
open session to consider the nominations.


           committee on commerce, science, and transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 
12, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.
  The Committee will hold a Hearing on ``Force Multipliers: How 
Transportation and Supply Chain Stakeholders are Combatting Human 
Trafficking.''


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, at 9:45 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building.


               committee on environment and public works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate office building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled ``The Use of TIFIA and Innovative Financing in 
Improving Infrastructure to Enhance Safety, Mobility, and Economic 
Opportunity.''


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, at 10 a.m., to hold 
a business meeting.


                     committee on foreign relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, at 10:05 a.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Consideration of the Taylor Force Act.''


                       committee on the judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on July 12, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in room SD-226 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Nominations.''


                      committee on indian affairs

  The Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, in room SD-628 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a 
legislative hearing.


                           committee on aging

  The Special Committee on Aging is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017, to conduct a hearing 
entitled ``Nourishing our Golden Years: How Proper and Adequate 
Nutrition Promote Healthy Aging and Positive Outcomes.''


  subcommittee on east asia, the pacific, international cybersecurity 
                                 policy

  The Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the 
Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, July 12, 2017 at 2:15 
p.m., to hold a Human Rights, and the Rule of Law.''


    committee on the judiciary subcommittee on border security and 
                              immigration

  The Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Border Security and 
Immigration, is authorized to meet during the session of the Senate, on 
July 12, 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in room SD-226 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Examining the Problem 
of Visa Overstays: A Need for Better Tracking and Accountability.''

                          ____________________



