

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3137-S3138]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING WINSHIP CANCER INSTITUTE

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I am honored to congratulate 
Winship

[[Page S3138]]

Cancer Institute at Emory University on earning the prestigious 
comprehensive cancer center designation from the National Cancer 
Institute. This designation now places Georgia's own Winship Cancer 
Institute in the top 1 percent of all cancer centers in the United 
States.
  Winship Cancer Institute was established in 1937 with a gift from one 
of Georgia's generous philanthropists, Robert W. Woodruff, whose 
mission was to allow Georgians to get the best cancer treatment in 
their home State. He envisioned doctors and researchers working 
together in the same facility, so that scientists would be reminded of 
the urgency of their work and motivated to bring innovative treatments 
to patients. Winship treated 168 patients in its first year. Today 
Winship sees more than 15,000 patients every year.
  The research being performed at Winship Cancer Institute is 
particularly important to Georgians because Winship researchers are 
studying the environmental and genetic issues unique to cancer in our 
State. Winship's goals are very specific: reducing the risk of cancer 
and detecting cancer at the earliest possible stage.
  An estimated 50,000 Georgians will be diagnosed with cancer this 
year, and approximately a third of them will receive some component of 
their treatment at one of Winship's clinical locations in metropolitan 
Atlanta.
  In recommending Winship for this special designation, former 
President Jimmy Carter spoke of the research and work being performed 
at Winship that helped save his life after his cancer diagnosis at his 
advanced age.
  Today Winship continues to stand out because of its commitment to 
aligning its outstanding cancer research and education initiatives with 
its significant cancer prevention and cancer care efforts. I am proud 
to congratulate Winship Cancer Institute on this important milestone, 
as its researchers and clinicians continue their mission to lessen the 
burden of cancer for the citizens of Georgia.

                          ____________________



