

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6310-H6311]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                HONORING THE LIFE OF CURRY TOMMY HAYNES

  (Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life of Curry Tommy Haynes, a longtime Georgia resident and brave hero 
of the Vietnam war, who joined our Heavenly Father on July 16 after a 
long battle with cancer.
  Mr. Haynes was one of the most decorated soldiers in our Nation's 
history, earning 10 Purple Heart awards for his bravery in combat in 
the jungles of Vietnam. Mr. Haynes remained an active member of the 
community after returning from duty by launching the Newton County EMT 
services, teaching locals to fly and skydive, and serving as a VA 
counselor to his fellow servicemembers.
  Mr. Speaker, while serving in Vietnam as part of the U.S. Army 173rd 
Airborne Brigade, Company C of the 503rd Infantry, Mr. Haynes was 
wounded

[[Page H6311]]

multiple times. He was shot in the arm, the thighs, the hand; he lost 
two fingers in one enemy ambush alone. Yet despite the multiple 
injuries, he never quit fighting.
  In 2015, he was presented with a special letter of proclamation 
issued by Georgia Governor Nathan Deal during a special ceremony 
recognizing his sacrifice.
  When asked how he survived combat with his numerous injuries, Mr. 
Haynes simply replied: I don't believe in luck. I owe it all to Jesus 
Christ.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please stand with me and join me 
in a moment of silence to honor the life and legacy of this American 
hero who deserves the respect of all Americans.

                          ____________________



