

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6134-H6135]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          THANKING UNSUNG HEROES IN WAKE OF ILLINOIS FLOODING

  (Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, this week, torrential rains caused record 
flooding in many parts of Illinois, and, in particular, in my district. 
I had the chance to visit some of the affected areas over the weekend, 
joined by my colleagues from Illinois, Mr. Hultgren and Mr. Roskam, as 
well as Senator Durbin, Fox Lake Mayor Donny Schmit, and Lake County 
Chair Aaron Lawlor. We spoke with residents and saw firsthand some of 
the many challenges these communities are facing.
  I rise today, however, to recognize the many unsung heroes who have 
stepped up to help their neighbors, and often helped total strangers, 
in the wake of this disaster. This includes our first responders, 
dedicated government workers, and volunteers, many coming from towns 
far away and unaffected by the floods.
  As the rains fell and then in the days after, these people worked 
tirelessly around the clock to lend a hand and try to hold off the 
rising waters. We are not out of the woods yet, and the people who 
serve our communities day in and day out in our local governments, our 
police and fire departments, and our emergency agencies are continuing 
to work with professionalism and quick coordination.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to use my time today to say ``thank you'' 
to these people working behind the scenes without due recognition. They 
represent the very best of our communities and our Nation and make us 
all very proud.

[[Page H6135]]

  

                          ____________________



