

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4593-H4594]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               NOW IS THE TIME FOR AN IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to go home and join my 
community in honoring the fallen as we come together and say thank you. 
But as I go home, as well, I will be visiting with so many constituents 
who will be asking the question: Why?
  This week in the Budget Committee, a very callous statement by the 
OMB Director about diabetes victims or individuals who have that 
disease who are sitting on their couch and eating nonnutritious food, 
because the budget that the President has offered wants to take 23 
million people off of healthcare, take $880 billion away from seniors 
who are in nursing homes who need Medicaid, and shutting down the Meals 
on Wheels. That is inhumane and cruel.
  At the same time, they will be asking me about the ridiculous, if you 
will, actions of the President firing the FBI Director because he was 
involved in the Russian investigation, asking the National Security 
Agency Director to block or to avoid talking about Russian collusion, 
and the National Intelligence Director asking him to cover up such 
things.
  I believe now it is time for an impeachment inquiry that goes along 
with the other investigations, along with the U.S. commission, along 
with the legislation on the special prosecutor because a special 
counsel can be fired. Our constituents are asking for the truth, and we 
need to give the truth.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

[[Page H4594]]

  

                          ____________________



