

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5420]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   THE PUBLIC TRUST HAS BEEN VIOLATED

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, the son of Mr. Trump knew full well 
that he was accepting an invitation from a chain of individuals 
affiliated with the Kremlin: first, the liaison guy, the publicist, an 
operative of the Kremlin; the entertainer, the operative of the 
Kremlin; and then the attorney, who has affiliations through her family 
with the Kremlin. And then the idea was to receive information from a 
foreign, hostile nation about the opponent of his father.
  With all of his outpouring of honesty now, the question has to be why 
was this meeting hidden, and it has to be whether we are on the brink 
of seeing a situation where those involved have acted against the 
interests of the United States of America.
  Having just come back from a former Soviet bloc country, I know the 
distinction between the freedom in this Nation and the non-freedom that 
Putin believes in. So I think it is important, as I have said over and 
over again, that the House Judiciary Committee needs to open up its 
investigation, take oversight over issues that are relevant to the 
Constitution and, of course, those individuals who are holding the 
public trust.
  The public trust has been violated, but I believe seriously that 
something more has been violated. There is Russian collusion: collusion 
in the election, skewing the idea of a fair election. This is what we 
are dealing with, and I am saddened by this situation.
  The Judiciary Committee must investigate the skewing of the election 
toward one candidate over another.

                          ____________________



