

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6149]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING PROFESSOR VED NANDA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Coffman) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor today to recognize the long 
career and accomplishments of a dear friend of mine, Professor Ved 
Nanda, who will be celebrating his 50th year teaching international law 
at the University of Denver.
  As a professor at the Sturm College of Law, Professor Ved Nanda has 
been a pioneer in the international law community since his arrival at 
the University of Denver in 1965. Professor Nanda created the school's 
renowned international legal studies program and established the Denver 
Journal of International Law and Policy in 1972. His work has inspired 
a countless number of students to become a part of the conversation on 
human rights and international issues.
  In addition to his achievements as an educator, Professor Nanda has 
contributed significantly to the international law community. He has 
served as the United States delegate to the World Federation of United 
Nations Associations where he worked to promote world peace, human 
rights, and the spread of democracy throughout the world.
  The culmination of his work has led to his receipt of countless 
awards, including the ``World Legal Scholar'' award in 1990 and the 
``United Nations Association Human Rights Award'' in 1997. I want to 
congratulate Professor Ved Nanda once more on his long career and many 
achievements. Professor Nanda's greatest passion was educating his 
students about the importance of international law and human rights. It 
is an honor to have a living legend in our community.

                          ____________________



