

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4216]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  NATIONAL POLICE WEEK AND RECAP OF FIFTH ANNUAL FIRST RESPONDERS TOUR

  (Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of 
National Police Week and to thank these brave men and women for their 
service and sacrifice to their communities.
  Our law enforcement and first responders run toward the danger when, 
ofttimes, we are running away from it. There is no way we can ever 
truly say ``thank you'' for their willingness to serve.
  Last week, I held my fifth annual first responders tour to thank them 
for their dedication to the communities of South Carolina and beyond. 
The tour consisted of five of the counties I represent: Newberry, 
Saluda, Edgefield, McCormick, and Greenwood. I can tell you that their 
expertise, focus, and commitment are unmatched.
  I visited the facilities and met with the men and women that are on 
the first line of defense, the ones who are so critical to the safety 
of our citizens. These folks encounter dangerous and life-threatening 
situations that require critical, on-the-spot decisionmaking, but they 
never second-guess answering that call and going towards the unknown to 
help those in need.
  I hope that events like National Police Week and first responders 
tours encourage more people to learn about the unique challenges that 
face these heroes every day. It is important for our law enforcement 
and first responders to know that their hard work and sacrifice is 
greatly appreciated.
  Thank you to all those that serve and have served. They are truly 
heroes, and we are grateful for their service to make us safe.
  May God bless these heroes, and may God continue to bless the United 
States of America.

                          ____________________



