

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2563-S2564]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have 8 requests for committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 26, 2017, at 10 
a.m., in room 406 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, to conduct a 
hearing entitled, ``A Review of the Technical, Scientific, and Legal 
Basis of the WOTUS Rule.''

[[Page S2564]]

  



                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 26, 2017, at 1:30 p.m., to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Nominations.''


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, April 26, in between votes in SD-430.


                     Committee on Homeland Security

  The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 
26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in order to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Duplication, Waste, and Fraud in Federal Programs.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate, on April 26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room SD-226 of 
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.


                      Committee on Small Business

  The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship is authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 26, 2017, at 
10 a.m., in 428A Russell Senate Office Building to conduct a hearing 
entitled, ``The Challenges and Opportunities of Running a Small 
Business in Rural America.''


                       Committee on Intelligence

  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is authorized to meet 
during the session of the 115th Congress of the U.S. Senate on 
Wednesday, April 26, 2017 from 10 a.m. in room SD-106 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building to hold a hearing entitled, ``Nomination of 
Courtney Simmons Elwood to be General Counsel of the Central 
Intelligence Agency.''


           Subcommittee on Space, Science, & Competitiveness

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to hold a meeting during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 
26, 2017, at 10 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office 
Building.
  The Committee will hold Subcommittee Hearing on ``Reopening the 
American Frontier: Reducing Regulatory Barriers and Expanding American 
Free Enterprise in Space.''

                          ____________________



