

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6561]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           HEALTHCARE REFORM

  (Mr. ROTHFUS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, the Senate's inability to pass healthcare 
reform legislation does not change the fact that the Affordable Care 
Act is failing. Many Americans may not have one insurance provider on 
the exchange this fall.
  Forty percent of counties in the country now only have one option on 
the exchange. The ACA Medicaid expansion treats nonelderly, nondisabled 
individuals living above the poverty line more favorably than the 
elderly and disabled that this crucial program exists to protect.
  Seven years ago, President Obama and congressional Democrats ran 
through an ill-conceived and unsustainable healthcare law that was 
grounded in make-believe and statements that were just not true. The 
Supreme Court twisted an unconstitutional individual mandate penalty 
into a dubiously constitutional tax, not only mocking our Constitution, 
but facilitating an evasion of responsibility for representatives who 
imposed an unpopular tax on the American people.
  The legacy ObamaCare has been and will continue to be--lost plans, 
lost doctors, and, as Chelsea Clinton reminded us last year, crushing 
costs. Single payer is not to the option. Not one Senator voted for 
single payer yesterday.
  The solution to our healthcare problem is more freedom, more choice, 
less Washington control. We must continue our efforts to save the 
American people from this failing law, and continue our healthcare 
reform efforts.

                          ____________________



