

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      COMMENDING COMFORT CREW FOR MILITARY KIDS FOR THEIR EFFORTS

  (Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, today I would like to honor a nonprofit 
organization in Austin for their outstanding achievements. The Comfort 
Crew for Military Kids develops and delivers programs to help support 
the children in our Gold Star families who serve around the world.
  This month, the organization is celebrating their 10th anniversary. 
As a Congressman from Fort Hood, the largest military base, Comfort 
Crew for Military Kids holds a very special place in my heart. For too 
long, military families have faced constant struggles and have had few 
places to turn. The Comfort Crew helps provide relief for these 
American families who sacrifice so much for our country.
  I have personally met with Comfort Crew both in Washington and, just 
last month, in Austin, Texas. While I was in Austin, I was fortunate 
enough to lend a hand, assembling care packages for the military 
children whose parents are deployed. These care packages may not seem 
like much in comparison to what these kids are giving up in return; 
however, they provide some comfort and solace.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to commend the Comfort Crew for their 
selfless efforts. They have had an impact on over 1 million military 
family members. In this unstable world, it is vital that we support 
these military families that give so much to us.
  I am proud to represent this organization and will continue to do 
everything I can to ensure our military children receive the support 
they need and the support they deserve.
  In God we trust.

                          ____________________



