

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2484]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         REMEMBERING TOM BUTLER

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I wish to honor my dear friend, Tom 
Butler, a longtime journalist from Paducah, KY. After an extraordinary 
life, Tom passed away March 31, 2017 at the age of 79.
  During his 35-year career at WPSD Local 6, Tom worked as an 
announcer, news director, and the vice president of news. John D. 
Williams, the general manager of the station, remembered him as 
``probably the most talented journalist I've ever had the privilege to 
know.'' Tom maintained a fierce dedication to accurate and fair 
reporting. To his viewers throughout western Kentucky, he became a 
symbol of trustworthy news.
  In his decades in the news business, Tom covered everything from the 
weather to U.S. Presidents, but he may be remembered most fondly for 
the mentorship he provided. Bill Evans, WPSD Local 6 vice president of 
news and operations, wrote ``[a]t one time, all three television 
stations in Louisville had prime anchors whom Tom had mentored.'' He 
constantly praised those whom he had helped to get their start in the 
business, instead of accepting any acclaim himself.
  I had the privilege of knowing Tom for many years, and I always 
enjoyed appearing on his show ``Accent,'' where I saw his kindness and 
professionalism firsthand. I join the entire Jackson Purchase community 
in remembering Tom's honesty, passion, and faith. Even after his 
retirement from WPSD, Tom continued to serve at East Baptist Church and 
as president of the Community Concert Association of Paducah.
  Earlier this year, the University of Kentucky Journalism Alumni 
Association announced that Tom would be inducted into the 2017 Class of 
the Kentucky Journalism Hall of Fame. Tom's long and distinguished 
career makes him incredibly deserving of this honor, and I believe it 
is an excellent way to pay tribute to his legacy.
  Elaine and I send our deep condolences to Tom's wife, Janice, and his 
children, Tom, Jr., and Amy. Tom touched so many lives, and we all 
stand by the Butler family in their time of grief.

                          ____________________



