

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5016-H5017]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        WELCOMING THE HONORABLE GREG GIANFORTE TO THE HOUSE OF 
                            REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from California (Mr. 
McCarthy) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, Greg Gianforte is a family man and a 
businessman. He has been a husband for 29 years, and he is a father of 
four. He is a founder with his wife, Susan, of RightNow Technologies, 
which employs over 500 fellow Montanans.
  It is good to have another businessowner in this House, somebody who 
knows the way the economy works, who has created jobs, and who cares 
about his local community.
  Now, Montana may only send one Member to this body, but out West, it 
is not about how many of you there are, it is about how much you do.
  Greg is a doer, and we are happy to have him here.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte), 
who is the dean of Montana.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I thank you and Majority Leader McCarthy.
  I am humbled and honored to have been elected by the people of 
Montana to represent them here in this House.
  I am joined today by my wife, Susan, who is in the gallery. We have 
been married 29 years. We have four grown children. Two of them are 
with us today, along with our daughter-in-law. We raised them hunting, 
fishing, and hiking on the great public lands in Montana.
  I am a business guy and an electrical engineer. I am trained to solve 
hard problems, not to argue about them, just to get things done.
  Susan and I did start a computer software company in our home over 20 
years ago in Bozeman, Montana, and it grew to over 500 employees there 
and became one of the State's largest employers.
  I am Montana's lone voice here in this House, sent by the people to 
do the work of the people. The MT comes before the R or the D after my 
name. I promised the people of Montana that I

[[Page H5017]]

would come back and drain the swamp. That is why today three of my 
first actions are bills: no balanced budget, no pay; term limits; and a 
ban on lobbying by Members of Congress after being out of office.
  We need to bring accountability to Washington, D.C.
  I feel a deep sense of obligation to serve, and I look forward to 
being a strong voice for all of Montana.

                          ____________________



