

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4509]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1015
     REMEMBERING U.S. MARINE CORPS LANCE CORPORAL MARC LUCAS TUCKER

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Mississippi (Mr. Kelly) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I am humbled to rise today in 
the memory of United States Marine Corps Lance Corporal Mark Lucas 
Tucker, who was killed on June 8, 2005, in a nonhostile vehicle 
accident on Alternate Supply Route Uranium in Iraq.
  Lance Corporal Tucker, a Pontotoc, Mississippi, native, was assigned 
to the 9th Engineer Support Battalion, 3rd Force Service Support Group, 
III Marine Expeditionary Force, Okinawa, Japan, attached to the 2nd 
Force Service Support Group, II Marine Expeditionary Force, Forward.
  Lance Corporal Tucker's mother, Donna Bagwell, is seated in the 
gallery today. She said her son wanted to be a marine from the time he 
was a little boy. He wanted to follow in the footsteps of his 
grandfather, who also served in the Marine Corps.
  In 2003, Lance Corporal Tucker enlisted in the United States Marine 
Corps. In 2005, he volunteered to go to Iraq to protect our Nation in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.
  Mrs. Bagwell said her son planned to stay in the United States Marine 
Corps until retirement and make it a career. ``He loved America,'' Mrs. 
Bagwell said, ``He loved the Marine Corps and everything about it.''
  Lance Corporal Tucker is survived by his parents, Kelly and Donna 
Bagwell, and Mark Tucker; and siblings, Christy Irby, Pam Bolen, and 
Terry Bagwell.
  Lance Corporal Tucker demonstrated the characteristics that make us 
all proud to be Americans, and we honor his service and his life.
  Semper fi, Lance Corporal Tucker.


                              Memorial Day

  Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I rise, as we enter this 
Memorial Day weekend, to recognize all of those great Americans who 
have given their lives for the freedoms that we enjoy.
  This Nation can never forget those who preserved our Nation and died 
way too soon. God bless all those who have died in defense of this 
great Nation, and God bless America.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded that it is not in order 
to refer to an occupant in the gallery.

                          ____________________



