

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2718]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                REMEMBERING AMEDEO ``ARMIE'' C. MEROLLA

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to a great Rhode 
Islander and patriot, BG Amedeo ``Armie'' C. Merolla, Rhode Island Army 
National Guard, RIARNG, retired, who passed away last week at the age 
of 88.
  Mr. Merolla was born in Providence and graduated from Mount Pleasant 
High School before attending Brown University and Harvard Law School. 
At Brown, he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, beginning what 
would become a 36-year career in service to our country marked by 
distinction and numerous decorations.
  In 1955, Mr. Merolla enlisted in the RIARNG and was later 
commissioned as a first lieutenant in the Judge Advocate General Corps. 
The U.S. Senate approved Mr. Merolla's appointment to the rank of 
brigadier general in 1984, making him the first Italian American to 
become a general officer in the RIARNG. Indeed, he was part of a 
generation of Italian Americans who served with distinction, bringing 
great pride to this community while becoming an integral part of the 
fabric of our State. He was subsequently appointed assistant adjutant 
general and deputy commanding general--Army of the RIARNG. Even after 
his retirement in 1987, Mr. Merolla continued to serve. He was 
appointed commander of the Rhode Island State Defense Force, where he 
served until 1997, and to the honorary rank of major general in the 
Rhode Island Militia in 2005.
  Mr. Merolla's military service was considerable and noteworthy, as 
was his legal career and contributions to his community and our State. 
He held numerous positions, including as legal counsel to several Rhode 
Island officials and agencies. He was also a former president of the 
Rhode Island Trial Lawyers Association, chairman of the Warwick School 
Committee, president of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Warwick, and trustee 
of St. Gregory the Great Church, among many other leadership roles.
  I offer my heartfelt condolences to Mr. Merolla's wife, Norma, and 
their four children: Katherine Merolla, Julie Merolla, Major Sandra 
Merolla, USARNG, retired, and Warwick City councilman Steve Merolla, as 
well as to the rest of his family and friends.

                          ____________________



