

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2487-S2488]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

           30TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE L'AMBIANCE PLAZA COLLAPSE

 Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, yesterday was Sunday, April 23.
  In Connecticut, April 23 is a solemn day. It is the day when we pause 
to remember and reflect upon the lives lost and the lives forever 
altered by one of the worst workplace disasters in Connecticut history, 
the collapse of the L'Ambiance Plaza construction site in Bridgeport.
  On almost every April 23, I have stood with laborers, families, 
officials, and others at the L'Ambiance memorial park to recognize the 
heartbreaking loss. It is a somber, sobering moment.
  On that day--30 years ago yesterday--workers were constructing a 16-
story apartment building using a process known as the lift-slab method. 
This method allows floors to be built at the base of a building and 
then hoisted up, one by one, using hydraulic lifting technology. This 
process was at work at L'Ambiance Plaza when things went horribly 
wrong. Due to shortsightedness and failures by the building's 
developers, the massive concrete slabs that formed several upper floors 
gave way, crushing the floors below like pancakes, all within seconds.
  Twenty-eight workers lost their lives. Nearly 2 dozen others were 
seriously injured. Those who survived the collapse demonstrated 
tremendous bravery and unity in the days afterward as a massive rescue 
and recovery operation ensued. The techniques deployed in that 
operation were later put to use at the World Trade Center on 9/11.
  In the aftermath of the tragedy, the lift-slab method of construction 
used in Bridgeport ended nationwide, thankfully. Still, however, the 
pain and grief continues for the families who lost loved ones.
  Today, in recognition of this grave anniversary and in memory of the 
victims, I enter into the Record their names: Michael Addona, Augustus 
Allman, Glenn Canning, Mario Colello, Francesco D'Addona, William 
Daddona, Donald Emanuel, Vincent Figliomeni, Herbert Goeldner, Jr., 
Terrance Gruber, John Hughes, Joseph Lowe, John Magnoli, Rocco Mancini, 
Richard McGill, Mario Musso, Nicholas Nardella, John Page, Guiseppe 
Paternostro, Angelantonio Perugini, John Puskar, Jr., Anthony Rinaldi, 
Albert Ritz, Michael Russillo, Reginald Siewert, William Varga, Frank 
Visconti, and Scott Ward.
  We must honor their lives--and the lives of many other American 
workers killed or injured in the workplace--by ensuring that employees 
are able to work at facilities that are safe and secure, free from 
needless dangers and hazards. We can achieve that realistic goal 
through strong regulations, meaningful oversight, and effective 
enforcement.
  On this day, I pledge to continue fighting for workers and workplace 
safety. I pledge to fight against efforts to roll back safety rules and 
against efforts to hamper agencies tasked with enforcing those rules.

[[Page S2488]]

  I strongly urge and challenge my colleagues and this administration 
to demonstrate their concern for their constituents and all American 
workers by publicly adopting this same pledge.
  We owe nothing less to the 28 victims of the L'Ambiance Plaza 
disaster.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



